Fellow citizens of the United States:

In compliance with a custom as old as the government itself, I appear before you to address you briefly, and to take in your presence the oath prescribed by the Constitution of the United States to be taken by the President "before he enters on the execution of his office."

I do not consider it necessary at present for me to discuss those matters of administration about which there is no special anxiety or excitement.

Apprehension seems to exist among the people of the Southern States that by the accession of a Republican administration their property and their peace and personal security are to be endangered. There has never been any reasonable cause for such apprehension. Indeed, the most ample evidence to the contrary has all the while existed and been open to their inspection. It is found in nearly all the published speeches of him who now addresses you. I do but quote from one of those speeches when I declare that "I have no purpose, directly or indirectly, to interfere with the institution of slavery in the States where it exists. I beheve I have no lawful right to do so, and I have no inclination to do so." Those who nominated and elected me did so with full knowledge that I had made this and many similar declarations, and had never recanted them. And, more than this, they placed in the platform for my acceptance, and as a law to themselves and to me, the clear and emphatic resolution which I now read:

Resolved, That the maintenance inviolate of the rights of the States, and especially the right of each State to order and control its own domestic institutions according to its own judgment exclusively, is essential to that balance of power on which the perfection and endurance of our political fabric depend, and we denounce the lawless invasion by armed force of the soil of any State or Territory, no matter under what pretext, as among the gravest of crimes.

I now reiterate these sentiments; and, in doing so, I only press upon the public attention the most conclusive evidence of which the case is susceptible, that the property, peace, and security of no section are to be in any wise endangered by the now incoming administration. I add, too, that all the protection which, consistently with the Constitution and the laws, can be given, will be cheerfully given to all the States when lawfully demanded, for whatever cause—as cheerfully to one section as to another.

There is much controversy about the delivering up of fugitives from service or labor. The clause I now read is as plainly written in the Constitution as any other of its provisions:

No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall in consequence of any law or regulation therein be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due.

It is scarcely questioned that this provision was intended by those who made it for the reclaiming of what we call fugitive slaves; and the intention of the lawgiver is the law. All members of Congress swear their support to the whole Constitution—to this provision as much as to any other. To the proposition, then, that slaves whose cases come within the terms of this clause "shall be delivered up," their oaths are unanimous. Now, if they would make the effort in good temper, could they not with nearly equal unanimity frame and pass a law by means of which to keep good that unanimous oath?

There is some difference of opinion whether this clause should be enforced by national or by State authority; but surely that difference is not a very material one. If the slave is to be surrendered, it can be of but little consequence to him or to others by which authority it is done. And should anyone in any case be content that his oath shall go unkept on a merely unsubstantial controversy as to how it shall be kept?

Again, in any law upon this subject, ought not all the safeguards of liberty known in civilized and humane jurisprudence to be introduced, so that a free man be not, in any case, surrendered as a slave? And might it not be well at the same time to provide by law for the enforcement of that clause in the Constitution which guarantees that "the citizen of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."

I take the official oath to-day with no mental reservations, and with no purpose to construe the Constitution or laws by any hypercritical rules. And while I do not choose now to specify particular acts of Congress as proper to be enforced, I do suggest that it will be much safer for all, both in official and private stations, to conform to and abide by all those acts which stand unrepealed, than to violate any of them, trusting to find impunity in having them held to be unconstitutional.

It is seventy-two years since the first inauguration of a President under our National Constitution. During that period fifteen different and greatly distinguished citizens have, in succession, administered the executive branch of the government. They have conducted it through many perils, and generally with great success. Yet, with all this scope of precedent, I now enter upon the same task for the brief constitutional term of four years under great and peculiar difficulty. A disruption of the Federal Union, heretofore only menaced, is now formidably attempted.

I hold that, in contemplation of universal law and of the Constitution, the Union of these States is perpetual. Perpetuity is implied, if not expressed, in the fundamental law of all national governments. It is safe to assert that no government proper ever had a provision in its organic law for its own termination. Continue to execute all the express provisions of our National Constitution, and the Union will endure forever—it being impossible to destroy it except by some action not provided for in the instrument itself.

Again, if the United States be not a government proper, but an association of States in the nature of contract merely, can it, as a contract, be peaceably unmade by less than all the parties who made it? One party to a contract may violate it—break it, so to speak; but does it not require all to lawfully rescind it?

Descending from these general principles, we find the proposition that, in legal contemplation the Union is perpetual confirmed by the history of the Union itself. The Union is much older than the Constitution. It was formed, in fact, by the Articles of Association in 1774. It was matured and continued by the Declaration of Independence in 1776. It was further matured, and the faith of all the then thirteen States expressly plighted and engaged that it should be perpetual, by the Articles of Confederation in 1778. And, finally, in 1787 one of the declared objects for ordaining and establishing the Constitution was "to form a more perfect Union."

But if the destruction of the Union by one or by a part only of the States be lawfully possible, the Union is less perfect than before the Constitution, having lost the vital element of perpetuity.

It follows from these views that no State upon its own mere motion can lawfully get out of the Union; that resolves and ordinances to that effect are legally void; and that acts of violence, within any State or States, against the authority of the United States, are insurrectionary or revolutionary, according to circumstances.

I therefore consider that, in view of the Constitution and the laws, the Union is unbroken; and to the extent of my ability I shall take care, as the Constitution itself expressly enjoins upon me, that the laws of the Union be faithfully executed in all the States. Doing this I deem to be only a simple duty on my part; and I shall perform it so far as practicable, unless my rightful masters, the American people, shall withhold the requisite means, or in some authoritative manner direct the contrary. I trust this will not be regarded as a menace, but only as the declared purpose of the Union that it will constitutionally defend and maintain itself.

In doing this there needs to be no bloodshed or violence; and there shall be none, unless it be forced upon the national authority. The power confided to me will be used to hold, occupy, and possess the property and places belonging to the government, and to collect the duties and imposts; but beyond what may be necessary for these objects, there will be no invasion, no using of force against or among the people anywhere. Where hostility to the United States, in any interior locality, shall be so great and universal as to prevent competent resident citizens from holding the Federal offices, there will be no attempt to force obnoxious strangers among the people for that object. While the strict legal right may exist in the government to enforce the exercise of these offices, the attempt to do so would be so irritating, and so nearly impracticable withal, that I deem it better to forego for the time the uses of such offices.

The mails, unless repelled, will continue to be furnished in all parts of the Union. So far as possible, the people everywhere shall have that sense of perfect security which is most favorable to calm thought and reflection. The course here indicated will be followed unless current events and experience shall show a modification or change to be proper, and in every case and exigency my best discretion will be exercised according to circumstances actually existing, and with a view and a hope of a peaceful solution of the national troubles and the restoration of fraternal sympathies and affections.

That there are persons in one section or another who seek to destroy the Union at all events, and are glad of any pretext to do it, I will neither affirm nor deny; but if there be such, I need address no word to them. To those, however, who really love the Union may I not speak?

Before entering upon so grave a matter as the destruction of our national fabric, with all its benefits, its memories, and its hopes, would it not be wise to ascertain precisely why we do it? Will you hazard so desperate a step while there is any possibility that any portion of the ills you fly from have no real existence? Will you, while the certain ills you fly to are greater than all the real ones you fly from—will you risk the commission of so fearful a mistake?

All profess to be content in the Union if all constitutional rights can be maintained. Is it true, then, that any right, plainly written in the Constitution, has been denied? I think not. Happily the human mind is so constituted that no party can reach to the audacity of doing this. Think, if you can, of a single instance in which a plainly written provision of the Constitution has ever been denied. If by the mere force of numbers a majority should deprive a minority of any clearly written constitutional right, it might, in a moral point of view, justify revolution—certainly would if such a right were a vital one. But such is not our case. All the vital rights of minorities and of individuals are so plainly assured to them by affirmations and negations, guarantees and prohibitions, in the Constitution, that controversies never arise concerning them. But no organic law can ever be framed with a provision specifically applicable to every question which may occur in practical administration. No foresight can anticipate, nor any document of reasonable length contain, express provisions for all possible questions. Shall fugitives from labor be surrendered by national or by State authority? The Constitution does not expressly say. May Congress prohibit slavery in the Territories? The Constitution does not expressly say. Must Congress protect slavery in the Territories? The Constitution does not expressly say.

From questions of this class spring all our constitutional controversies, and we divide upon them into majorities and minorities. If the minority will not acquiesce, the majority must, or the government must cease. There is no other alternative; for continuing the government is acquiescence on one side or the other.

If a minority in such case will secede rather than acquiesce, they make a precedent which in turn will divide and ruin them; for a minority of their own will secede from them whenever a majority refuses to be controlled by such minority. For instance, why may not any portion of a new confederacy a year or two hence arbitrarily secede again, precisely as portions of the present Union now claim to secede from it? All who cherish disunion sentiments are now being educated to the exact temper of doing this.

Is there such perfect identity of interests among the States to compose a new Union, as to produce harmony only, and prevent renewed secession?

Plainly, the central idea of secession is the essence of anarchy. A majority held in restraint by constitutional checks and limitations, and always changing easily with deliberate changes of popular opinions and sentiments, is the only true sovereign of a free people. Whoever rejects it does, of necessity, fly to anarchy or to despotism. Unanimity is impossible; the rule of a minority, as a permanent arrangement, is wholly inadmissible; so that, rejecting the majority principle, anarchy or despotism in some form is all that is left.

I do not forget the position, assumed by some, that constitutional questions are to be decided by the Supreme Court; nor do I deny that such decisions must be binding, in any case, upon the parties to a suit, as to the object of that suit, while they are also entitled to very high respect and consideration in all parallel cases by all other departments of the government. And while it is obviously possible that such decision may be erroneous in any given case, still the evil effect following it, being limited to that particular case, with the chance that it may be overruled and never become a precedent for other cases, can better be borne than could the evils of a different practice. At the same time, the candid citizen must confess that if the policy of the government, upon vital questions affecting the whole people, is to be irrevocably fixed by decisions of the Supreme Court, the instant they are made, in ordinary litigation between parties in personal actions, the people will have ceased to be their own rulers, having to that extent practically resigned their government into the hands of that eminent tribunal. Nor is there in this view any assault upon the court or the judges. It is a duty from which they may not shrink to decide cases properly brought before them, and it is no fault of theirs if others seek to turn their decisions to political purposes.

One section of our country believes slavery is right, and ought to be extended, while the other believes it is wrong, and ought not to be extended. This is the only substantial dispute. The fugitive-slave clause of the Constitution, and the law for the suppression of the foreign slave-trade, are each as well enforced, perhaps, as any law can ever be in a community where the moral sense of the people imperfectly supports the law itself. The great body of the people abide by the dry legal obligation in both cases, and a few break over in each. This, I think, cannot be perfectly cured; and it would be worse in both cases after the separation of the sections than before. The foreign slave-trade, now imperfectly suppressed, would be ultimately revived, without restriction, in one section, while fugitive slaves, now only partially surrendered, would not be surrendered at all by the other.

Physically speaking, we cannot separate. We cannot remove our respective sections from each other, nor build an impassable wall between them. A husband and wife may be divorced, and go out of the presence and beyond the reach of each other; but the different parts of our country cannot do this. They cannot but remain face to face, and intercourse, either amicable or hostile, must continue between them. Is it possible, then, to make that intercourse more advantageous or more satisfactory after separation than before? Can aliens make treaties easier than friends can make laws? Can treaties be more faithfully enforced between aliens than laws can among friends? Suppose you go to war, you cannot fight always; and when, after much loss on both sides, and no gain on either, you cease fighting, the identical old questions as to terms of intercourse are again upon you.

This country, with its institutions, belongs to the people who inhabit it. Whenever they shall grow weary of the existing government, they can exercise their constitutional right of amending it, or their revolutionary right to dismember or overthrow it. I cannot be ignorant of the fact that many worthy and patriotic citizens are desirous of having the National Constitution amended. While I make no recommendation of amendments, I fully recognize the rightful authority of the people over the whole subject, to be exercised in either of the modes prescribed in the instrument itself; and I should, under existing circumstances, favor rather than oppose a fair opportunity being afforded the people to act upon it.

I will venture to add that to me the convention mode seems preferable, in that it allows amendments to originate with the people themselves, instead of only permitting them to take or reject propositions originated by others not especially chosen for the purpose, and which might not be precisely such as they would wish to either accept or refuse. I understand a proposed amendment to the Constitution—which amendment, however, I have not seen—has passed Congress, to the effect that the Federal Government shall never interfere with the domestic institutions of the States, including that of persons held to service. To avoid misconstruction of what I have said, I depart from my purpose not to speak of particular amendments so far as to say that, holding such a provision to now be implied constitutional law, I have no objection to its being made express and irrevocable.

The chief magistrate derives all his authority from the people, and they have conferred none upon him to fix terms for the separation of the States. The people themselves can do this also if they choose; but the executive, as such, has nothing to do with it. His duty is to administer the present government, as it came to his hands, and to transmit it, unimpaired by him, to his successor.

Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people? Is there any better or equal hope in the world? In our present differences is either party without faith of being in the right? If the Almighty Ruler of Nations, with his eternal truth and justice, be on your side of the North, or on yours of the South, that truth and that justice will surely prevail by the judgment of this great tribunal of the American people.

By the frame of the government under which we live, this same people have wisely given their public servants but little power for mischief; and have, with equal wisdom, provided for the return of that little to their own hands at very short intervals.

While the people retain their virtue and vigilance, no administration, by any extreme of wickedness or folly, can very seriously injure the government in the short space of four years.

My countrymen, one and all, think calmly and well upon this whole subject. Nothing valuable can be lost by taking time. If there be an object to hurry any of you in hot haste to a step which you would never take deliberately, that object will be frustrated by taking time; but no good object can be frustrated by it. Such of you as are now dissatisfied, still have the old Constitution unimpaired, and, on the sensitive point, the laws of your own framing under it; while the new administration will have no immediate power, if it would, to change either. If it were admitted that you who are dissatisfied hold the right side in the dispute, there still is no single good reason for precipitate action. Intelligence, patriotism, Christianity, and a firm reliance on Him who has never yet forsaken this favored land, are still competent to adjust in the best way all our present difficulty.

In your hands, my dissatisfied fellow-countrymen, and not in mine, is the momentous issue of civil war. The government will not assail you. You can have no conflict without being yourselves the aggressors. You have no oath registered in heaven to destroy the government, while I shall have the most solemn one to "preserve, protect, and defend it."

I am loath to close. We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory, stretching from every battle-field and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone all over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature.

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

Having been convened on an extraordinary occasion, as authorized by the Constitution, your attention is not called to any ordinary subject of legislation.

At the beginning of the present Presidential term, four months ago, the functions of the Federal Government were found to be generally suspended within the several States of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Florida, excepting only those of the Post-Office Department.

Within these States all the forts, arsenals, dockyards, custom-houses, and the like, including the movable and stationary property in and about them, had been seized and were held in open hostility to this Government, excepting only Forts Pickens, Taylor, and Jefferson, on and near the Florida coast, and Fort Sumter, in Charleston Harbor, South Carolina. The forts thus seized had been put in improved condition, new ones had been built, and armed forces had been organized and were organizing, all avowedly with the same hostile purpose.

The forts remaining in the possession of the Federal Government in and near these States were either besieged or menaced by warlike preparations, and especially Fort Sumter was nearly surrounded by well-protected hostile batteries, with guns equal in quality to the best of its own and outnumbering the latter as perhaps ten to one. A disproportionate share of the Federal muskets and rifles had somehow found their way into these States, and had been seized to be used against the Government. Accumulations of the public revenue lying within them had been seized for the same object. The Navy was scattered in distant seas, leaving but a very small part of it within the immediate reach of the Government. Officers of the Federal Army and Navy had resigned in great numbers, and of those resigning a large proportion had taken up arms against the Government. Simultaneously and in connection with all this the purpose to sever the Federal Union was openly avowed. In accordance with this purpose, an ordinance had been adopted in each of these States declaring the States respectively to be separated from the National Union. A formula for instituting a combined government of these States had been promulgated, and this illegal organization, in the character of Confederate States, was already invoking recognition, aid, and intervention from foreign powers.

Finding this condition of things and believing it to be an imperative duty upon the incoming Executive to prevent, if possible, the consummation of such attempt to destroy the Federal Union, a choice of means to that end became indispensable. This choice was made, and was declared in the inaugural address. The policy chosen looked to the exhaustion of all peaceful measures before a resort to any stronger ones. It sought only to hold the public places and property not already wrested from the Government and to collect the revenue, relying for the rest on time, discussion, and the ballot box. It promised a continuance of the mails at Government expense to the very people who were resisting the Government, and it gave repeated pledges against any disturbance to any of the people or any of their rights. Of all that which a President might constitutionally and justifiably do in such a case, everything was forborne without which it was believed possible to keep the Government on foot.

On the 5th of March, the present incumbent's first full day in office, a letter of Major Anderson, commanding at Fort Sumter, written on the 28th of February and received at the War Department on the 4th of March, was by that Department placed in his hands. This letter expressed the professional opinion of the writer that reenforcements could not be thrown into that fort within the time for his relief rendered necessary by the limited supply of provisions, and with a view of holding possession of the same, with a force of less than 20,000 good and well-disciplined men. This opinion was concurred in by all the officers of his command, and their memoranda on the subject were made inclosures of Major Anderson's letter. The whole was immediately laid before Lieutenant-General Scott, who at once concurred with Major Anderson in opinion. On reflection, however, he took full time, consulting with other officers, both of the Army and the Navy, and at the end of four days came reluctantly, but decidedly, to the same conclusion as before. He also stated at the same time that no such sufficient force was then at the control of the Government or could be raised and brought to the ground within the time when the provisions in the fort would be exhausted. In a purely military point of view this reduced the duty of the Administration in the case to the mere matter of getting the garrison safely out of the fort.

It was believed, however, that to so abandon that position under the circumstances would be utterly ruinous; that the necessity under which it was to be done would not be fully understood; that by many it would be construed as a part of a voluntary policy; that at home it would discourage the friends of the Union, embolden its adversaries, and go far to insure to the latter a recognition abroad; that, in fact, it would be our national destruction consummated. This could not be allowed. Starvation was not yet upon the garrison, and ere it would be reached Fort Pickens might be reenforced. This last would be a clear indication of policy, and would better enable the country to accept the evacuation of Fort Sumter as a military necessity . An order was at once directed to be sent for the landing of the troops from the steamship Brooklyn into Fort Pickens. This order could not go by land but must take the longer and slower route by sea. The first return news from the order was received just one week before the fall of Fort Sumter. The news itself was that the officer commanding the Sabine , to which vessel the troops had been transferred from the Brooklyn , acting upon some quasi armistice of the late Administration (and of the existence of which the present Administration, up to the time the order was dispatched, had only too vague and uncertain rumors to fix attention), had refused to land the troops. To now reenforce Fort Pickens before a crisis would be reached at Fort Sumter was impossible, rendered so by the near exhaustion of provisions in the latter-named fort. In precaution against such a conjuncture the Government had a few days before commenced preparing an expedition, as well adapted as might be, to relieve Fort Sumter, which expedition was intended to be ultimately used or not, according to circumstances. The strongest anticipated case for using it was now presented, and it was resolved to send it forward. As had been intended in this contingency, it was also resolved to notify the governor of South Carolina that he might expect an attempt would be made to provision the fort, and that if the attempt should not be resisted there would be no effort to throw in men, arms, or ammunition without further notice, or in case of an attack upon the fort. This notice was accordingly given, whereupon the fort was attacked and bombarded to its fall, without even awaiting the arrival of the provisioning expedition.

It is thus seen that the assault upon and reduction of Fort Sumter was in no sense a matter of self-defense on the part of the assailants. They well knew that the garrison in the fort could by no possibility commit aggression upon them. They knew--they were expressly notified--that the giving of bread to the few brave and hungry men of the garrison was all which would on that occasion be attempted, unless themselves, by resisting so much, should provoke more. They knew that this Government desired to keep the garrison in the fort, not to assail them, but merely to maintain visible possession, and thus to preserve the Union from actual and immediate dissolution, trusting, as hereinbefore stated, to time, discussion, and the ballot box for final adjustment; and they assailed and reduced the fort for precisely the reverse object--to drive out the visible authority of the Federal Union, and thus force it to immediate dissolution. That this was their object the Executive well understood; and having said to them in the inaugural address, "You can have no conflict without being yourselves the aggressors," he took pains not only to keep this declaration good, but also to keep the case so free from the power of ingenious sophistry as that the world should not be able to misunderstand it. By the affair at Fort Sumter, with its surrounding circumstances, that point was reached. Then and thereby the assailants of the Government began the conflict of arms, without a gun in sight or in expectancy to return their fire, save only the few in the fort, sent to that harbor years before for their own protection, and still ready to give that protection in whatever was lawful. In this act, discarding all else, they have forced upon the country the distinct issue, "Immediate dissolution or blood."

And this issue embraces more than the fate of these United States. It presents to the whole family of man the question whether a constitutional republic, or democracy--a government of the people by the same people--can or can not maintain its territorial integrity against its own domestic foes. It presents the question whether discontented individuals, too few in numbers to control administration according to organic law in any case, can always, upon the pretenses made in this case, or on any other pretenses, or arbitrarily without any pretense, break up their government, and thus practically put an end to free government upon the earth. It forces us to ask, Is there in all republics this inherent and fatal weakness? Must a government of necessity be too strong for the liberties of its own people, or too weak to maintain its own existence?

So viewing the issue, no choice was left but to call out the war power of the Government and so to resist force employed for its destruction by force for its preservation.

The call was made, and the response of the country was most gratifying, surpassing in unanimity and spirit the most sanguine expectation. Yet none of the States commonly called slave States, except Delaware gave a regiment through regular State organization. A few regiments have been organized within some others of those States by individual enterprise and received into the Government service. Of course the seceded States, so called (and to which Texas had been joined about the time of the inauguration), gave no troops to the cause of the Union. The border States, so called, were not uniform in their action, some of them being almost for the Union, while in others, as Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Arkansas, the Union sentiment was nearly repressed and silenced. The course taken in Virginia was the most remarkable, perhaps the most important. A convention elected by the people of that State to consider this very question of disrupting the Federal Union was in session at the capital of Virginia when Fort Sumter fell. To this body the people had chosen a large majority of professed Union men. Almost immediately after the fall of Sumter many members of that majority went over to the original disunion minority, and with them adopted an ordinance for withdrawing the State from the Union. Whether this change was wrought by their great approval of the assault upon Sumter or their great resentment at the Government's resistance to that assault is not definitely known. Although they submitted the ordinance for ratification to a vote of the people, to be taken on a day then somewhat more than a month distant, the convention and the legislature (which was also in session at the same time and place), with leading men of the State not members of either, immediately commenced acting as if the State were already out of the Union. They pushed military preparations vigorously forward all over the State. They seized the United States armory at Harpers Ferry and the navy-yard at Gosport, near Norfolk. They received--perhaps invited--into their State large bodies of troops, with their warlike appointments, from the so-called seceded States. They formally entered into a treaty of temporary alliance and cooperation with the so-called "Confederate States," and sent members to their congress at Montgomery; and, finally, they permitted the insurrectionary government to be transferred to their capital at Richmond.

The people of Virginia have thus allowed this giant insurrection to make its nest within her borders, and this Government has no choice left but to deal with it where it finds it; and it has the less regret, as the loyal citizens have in due form claimed its protection. Those loyal citizens this Government is bound to recognize and protect, as being Virginia.

In the border States, so called--in fact, the Middle States--there are those who favor a policy which they call "armed neutrality;" that is, an arming of those States to prevent the Union forces passing one way or the disunion the other over their soil. This would be disunion completed. Figuratively speaking, it would be the building of an impassable wall along the line of separation, and yet not quite an impassable one, for, under the guise of neutrality, it would tie the hands of the Union men and freely pass supplies from among them to the insurrectionists, which it could not do as an open enemy. At a stroke it would take all the trouble off the hands of secession, except only what proceeds from the external blockade. It would do for the disunionists that which of all things they most desire--feed them well and give them disunion without a struggle of their own. It recognizes no fidelity to the Constitution, no obligation to maintain the Union; and while very many who have favored it are doubtless loyal citizens, it is, nevertheless, very injurious in effect.

Recurring to the action of the Government, it may be stated that at first a call was made for 75,000 militia, and rapidly following this a proclamation was issued for closing the ports of the insurrectionary districts by proceedings in the nature of blockade. So far all was believed to be strictly legal. At this point the insurrectionists announced their purpose to enter upon the practice of privateering.

Other calls were made for volunteers to serve three years unless sooner discharged, and also for large additions to the Regular Army and Navy. These measures, whether strictly legal or not, were ventured upon under what appeared to be a popular demand and a public necessity, trusting then, as now, that Congress would readily ratify them. It is believed that nothing has been done beyond the constitutional competency of Congress.

Soon after the first call for militia it was considered a duty to authorize the Commanding General in proper cases, according to his discretion, to suspend the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus, or, in other words, to arrest and detain without resort to the ordinary processes and forms of law such individuals as he might deem dangerous to the public safety. This authority has purposely been exercised but very sparingly. Nevertheless, the legality and propriety of what has been done under it are questioned, and the attention of the country has been called to the proposition that one who is sworn to "take care that the laws be faithfully executed" should not himself violate them. Of course some consideration was given to the questions of power and propriety before this matter was acted upon. The whole of the laws which were required to be faithfully executed were being resisted and failing of execution in nearly one-third of the States. Must they be allowed to finally fail of execution, even had it been perfectly clear that by the use of the means necessary to their execution some single law, made in such extreme tenderness of the citizen's liberty that practically it relieves more of the guilty than of the innocent, should to a very limited extent be violated? To state the question more directly, Are all the laws but one to go unexecuted, and the Government itself go to pieces lest that one be violated? Even in such a case, would not the official oath be broken if the Government should be overthrown when it was believed that disregarding the single law would tend to preserve it? But it was not believed that this question was presented. It was not believed that any law was violated. The provision of the Constitution that "the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended unless when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require it" is equivalent to a provision--is a provision-that such privilege may be suspended when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety does require it. It was decided that we have a case of rebellion and that the public safety does require the qualified suspension of the privilege of the writ which was authorized to be made. Now it is insisted that Congress, and not the Executive, is vested with this power; but the Constitution itself is silent as to which or who is to exercise the power; and as the provision was plainly made for a dangerous emergency, it can not be believed the framers of the instrument intended that in every case the danger should run its course until Congress could be called together, the very assembling of which might be prevented, as was intended in this case, by the rebellion.

No more extended argument is now offered, as an opinion at some length will probably be presented by the Attorney-General. Whether there shall be any legislation upon the subject, and, if any, what, is submitted entirely to the better judgment of Congress.

The forbearance of this Government had been so extraordinary and so long continued as to lead some foreign nations to shape their action as if they supposed the early destruction of our National Union was probable. While this on discovery gave the Executive some concern, he is now happy to say that the sovereignty and rights of the United States are now everywhere practically respected by foreign powers, and a general sympathy with the country is manifested throughout the world.

The reports of the Secretaries of the Treasury, War, and the Navy will give the information in detail deemed necessary and convenient for your deliberation and action, while the Executive and all the Departments will stand ready to supply omissions or to communicate new facts considered important for you to know.

It is now recommended that you give the legal means for making this contest a short and a decisive one; that you place at the control of the Government for the work at least 400,000 men and $400,000,000. That number of men is about one-tenth of those of proper ages within the regions where apparently all are willing to engage, and the sum is less than a twenty-third part of the money value owned by the men who seem ready to devote the whole. A debt of $600,000,000 now is a less sum per head than was the debt of our Revolution when we came out of that struggle, and the money value in the country now bears even a greater proportion to what it was then than does the population. Surely each man has as strong a motive now to preserve our liberties as each had then to establish them.

A right result at this time will be worth more to the world than ten times the men and ten times the money. The evidence reaching us from the country leaves no doubt that the material for the work is abundant, and that it needs only the hand of legislation to give it legal sanction and the hand of the Executive to give it practical shape and efficiency. One of the greatest perplexities of the Government is to avoid receiving troops faster than it can provide for them. In a word, the people will save their Government if the Government itself will do its part only indifferently well.

It might seem at first thought to be of little difference whether the present movement at the South be called "secession" or "rebellion." The movers, however, well understand the difference. At the beginning they knew they could never raise their treason to any respectable magnitude by any name which implies violation of law. They knew their people possessed as much of moral sense, as much of devotion to law and order, and as much pride in and reverence for the history and Government of their common country as any other civilized and patriotic people. They knew they could make no advancement directly in the teeth of these strong and noble sentiments. Accordingly, they commenced by an insidious debauching of the public mind. They invented an ingenious sophism, which, if conceded, was followed by perfectly logical steps through all the incidents to the complete destruction of the Union. The sophism itself is that any State of the Union may consistently with the National Constitution, and therefore lawfully and peacefully , withdraw from the Union without the consent of the Union or of any other State. The little disguise that the supposed right is to be exercised only for just cause, themselves to be the sole judge of its justice, is too thin to merit any notice.

With rebellion thus sugar coated they have been drugging the public mind of their section for more than thirty years, and until at length they have brought many good men to a willingness to take up arms against the Government the day after some assemblage of men have enacted the farcical pretense of taking their State out of the Union who could have been brought to no such thing the day before .

This sophism derives much, perhaps the whole, of its currency from the assumption that there is some omnipotent and sacred supremacy pertaining to a State--to each State of our Federal Union. Our States have neither more nor less power than that reserved to them in the Union by the Constitution, no one of them ever having been a State out of the Union. The original ones passed into the Union even before they cast off their British colonial dependence, and the new ones each came into the Union directly from a condition of dependence, excepting Texas; and even Texas, in its temporary independence, was never designated a State. The new ones only took the designation of States on coming into the Union, while that name was first adopted for the old ones in and by the Declaration of Independence. Therein the "United Colonies" were declared to be "free and independent States;" but even then the object plainly was not to declare their independence of one another or of the Union, but directly the contrary, as their mutual pledge and their mutual action before, at the time, and afterwards abundantly show. The express plighting of faith by each and all of the original thirteen in the Articles of Confederation, two years later, that the Union shall be perpetual is most conclusive. Having never been States, either in substance or in name, outside of the Union, whence this magical omnipotence of "State rights," asserting a claim of power to lawfully destroy the Union itself? Much is said about the "sovereignty" of the States, but the word even is not in the National Constitution, nor, as is believed, in any of the State constitutions. What is a "sovereignty" in the political sense of the term? Would it be far wrong to define it "a political community without a political superior"? Tested by this, no one of our States, except Texas, ever was a sovereignty; and even Texas gave up the character on coming into the Union, by which act she acknowledged the Constitution of the United States and the laws and treaties of the United States made in pursuance of the Constitution to be for her the supreme law of the land. The States have their status in the Union, and they have no other legal status. If they break from this, they can only do so against law and by revolution. The Union, and not themselves separately, procured their independence and their liberty. By conquest or purchase the Union gave each of them whatever of independence and liberty it has. The Union is older than any of the States, and, in fact, it created them as States. Originally some dependent colonies made the Union, and in turn the Union threw off their old dependence for them and made them States, such as they are. Not one of them ever had a State constitution independent of the Union. Of course it is not forgotten that all the new States framed their constitutions before they entered the Union, nevertheless dependent upon and preparatory to coming into the Union.

Unquestionably the States have the powers and rights reserved to them in and by the National Constitution; but among these surely are not included all conceivable powers, however mischievous or destructive, but at most such only as were known in the world at the time as governmental powers; and certainly a power to destroy the Government itself had never been known as a governmental--as a merely administrative power. This relative matter of national power and State rights, as a principle, is no other than the principle of generality and locality . Whatever concerns the whole should be confided to the whole--to the General Government--while whatever concerns only the State should be left exclusively to the State. This is all there is of original principle about it. Whether the National Constitution in defining boundaries between the two has applied the principle with exact accuracy is not to be questioned. We are all bound by that defining without question.

What is now combated is the position that secession is consistent with the Constitution--is lawful and peaceful . It is not contended that there is any express law for it, and nothing should ever be implied as law which leads to unjust or absurd consequences. The nation purchased with money the countries out of which several of these States were formed. Is it just that they shall go off without leave and without refunding? The nation paid very large sums (in the aggregate, I believe, nearly a hundred millions) to relieve Florida of the aboriginal tribes. Is it just that she shall now be off without consent or without making any return? The nation is now in debt for money applied to the benefit of these so-called seceding States in common with the rest. Is it just either that creditors shall go unpaid or the remaining States pay the whole? A part of the present national debt was contracted to pay the old debts of Texas. Is it just that she shall leave and pay no part of this herself?

Again: If one State may secede, so may another; and when all shall have seceded none is left to pay the debts. Is this quite just to creditors? Did we notify them of this sage view of ours when we borrowed their money? If we now recognize this doctrine by allowing the seceders to go in peace, it is difficult to see what we can do if others choose to go or to extort terms upon which they will promise to remain.

The seceders insist that our Constitution admits of secession. They have assumed to make a national constitution of their own, in which of necessity they have either discarded or retained the right of secession, as they insist it exists in ours. If they have discarded it, they thereby admit that on principle it ought not to be in ours. If they have retained it, by their own construction of ours they show that to be consistent they must secede from one another whenever they shall find it the easiest way of settling their debts or effecting any other selfish or unjust object. The principle itself is one of disintegration, and upon which no government can possibly endure.

If all the States save one should assert the power to drive that one out of the Union, it is presumed the whole class of seceder politicians would at once deny the power and denounce the act as the greatest outrage upon State rights. But suppose that precisely the same act, instead of being called "driving the one out," should be called "the seceding of the others from that one," it would be exactly what the seceders claim to do, unless, indeed, they make the point that the one, because it is a minority, may rightfully do what the others, because they are a majority, may not rightfully do. These politicians are subtle and profound on the rights of minorities. They are not partial to that power which made the Constitution and speaks from the preamble, calling itself "we, the people."

It may well be questioned whether there is to-day a majority of the legally qualified voters of any State, except, perhaps, South Carolina, in favor of disunion. There is much reason to believe that the Union men are the majority in many, if not in every other one, of the so-called seceded States. The contrary has not been demonstrated in any one of them. It is ventured to affirm this even of Virginia and Tennessee; for the result of an election held in military camps, where the bayonets are all on one side of the question voted upon, can scarcely be considered as demonstrating popular sentiment. At such an election all that large class who are at once for the Union and against coercion would be coerced to vote against the Union.

It may be affirmed without extravagance that the free institutions we enjoy have developed the powers and improved the condition of our whole people beyond any example in the world. Of this we now have a striking and an impressive illustration. So large an army as the Government has now on foot was never before known without a soldier in it but who had taken his place there of his own free choice. But more than this, there are many single regiments whose members, one and another, possess full practical knowledge of all the arts, sciences, professions, and whatever else, whether useful or elegant, is known in the world; and there is scarcely one from which there could not be selected a President, a Cabinet, a Congress, and perhaps a court, abundantly competent to administer the Government itself. Nor do I say this is not true also in the army of our late friends, now adversaries in this contest; but if it is, so much better the reason why the Government which has conferred such benefits on both them and us should not be broken up. Whoever in any section proposes to abandon such a government would do well to consider in deference to what principle it is that he does it; what better he is likely to get in its stead; whether the substitute will give, or be intended to give, so much of good to the people. There are some foreshadowings on this subject. Our adversaries have adopted some declarations of independence in which, unlike the good old one penned by Jefferson, they omit the words "all men are created equal." Why? They have adopted a temporary national constitution, in the preamble of which, unlike our good old one signed by Washington, they omit "We, the people," and substitute "We, the deputies of the sovereign and independent States." Why? Why this deliberate pressing out of view the rights of men and the authority of the people?

This is essentially a people's contest. On the side of the Union it is a struggle for maintaining in the world that form and substance of government whose leading object is to elevate the condition of men; to lift artificial weights from all shoulders; to clear the paths of laudable pursuit for all; to afford all an unfettered start and a fair chance in the race of life. Yielding to partial and temporary departures, from necessity, this is the leading object of the Government for whose existence we contend.

I am most happy to believe that the plain people understand and appreciate this. It is worthy of note that while in this the Government's hour of trial large numbers of those in the Army and Navy who have been favored with the offices have resigned and proved false to the hand which had pampered them, not one common soldier or common sailor is known to have deserted his flag.

Great honor is due to those officers who remained true despite the example of their treacherous associates; but the greatest honor and most important fact of all is the unanimous firmness of the common soldiers and common sailors. To the last man, so far as known, they have successfully resisted the traitorous efforts of those whose commands but an hour before they obeyed as absolute law. This is the patriotic instinct of plain people. They understand without an argument that the destroying the Government which was made by Washington means no good to them.

Our popular Government has often been called an experiment. Two points in it our people have already settled--the successful establishing and the successful administering of it. One still remains--its successful maintenance against a formidable internal attempt to overthrow it. It is now for them to demonstrate to the world that those who can fairly carry an election can also suppress a rebellion; that ballots are the rightful and peaceful successors of bullets, and that when ballots have fairly and constitutionally decided there can be no successful appeal back to bullets; that there can be no successful appeal except to ballots themselves at succeeding elections. Such will be a great lesson of peace, teaching men that what they can not take by an election neither can they take it by a war; teaching all the folly of being the beginners of a war.

Lest there be some uneasiness in the minds of candid men as to what is to be the course of the Government toward the Southern States after the rebellion shall have been suppressed, the Executive deems it proper to say it will be his purpose then, as ever, to be guided by the Constitution and the laws, and that he probably will have no different understanding of the powers and duties of the Federal Government relatively to the rights of the States and the people under the Constitution than that expressed in the inaugural address.

He desires to preserve the Government, that it may be administered for all as it was administered by the men who made it. Loyal citizens everywhere have the right to claim this of their government, and the government has no right to withhold or neglect it. It is not perceived that in giving it there is any coercion, any conquest, or any subjugation in any just sense of those terms.

The Constitution provides, and all the States have accepted the provision, that "the United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a republican form of government." But if a State may lawfully go out of the Union, having done so it may also discard the republican form of government; so that to prevent its going out is an indispensable means to the end of maintaining the guaranty mentioned; and when an end is lawful and obligatory the indispensable means to it are also lawful and obligatory.

It was with the deepest regret that the Executive found the duty of employing the war power in defense of the Government forced upon him. He could but perform this duty or surrender the existence of the Government. No compromise by public servants could in this case be a cure; not that compromises are not often proper, but that no popular government can long survive a marked precedent that those who carry an election can only save the government from immediate destruction by giving up the main point upon which the people gave the election. The people themselves, and not their servants, can safely reverse their own deliberate decisions.

As a private citizen the Executive could not have consented that these institutions shall perish; much less could he in betrayal of so vast and so sacred a trust as these free people had confided to him. He felt that he had no moral right to shrink, nor even to count the chances of his own life in what might follow. In full view of his great responsibility he has so far done what he has deemed his duty. You will now, according to your own judgment, perform yours. He sincerely hopes that your views and your action may so accord with his as to assure all faithful citizens who have been disturbed in their rights of a certain and speedy restoration to them under the Constitution and the laws.

And having thus chosen our course, without guile and with pure purpose, let us renew our trust in God and go forward without fear and with manly hearts.

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

In the midst of unprecedented political troubles we have cause of great gratitude to God for unusual good health and most abundant harvests.

You will not be surprised to learn that in the peculiar exigencies of the times our intercourse with foreign nations has been attended with profound solicitude, chiefly turning upon our own domestic affairs.

A disloyal portion of the American people have during the whole year been engaged in an attempt to divide and destroy the Union. A nation which endures factious domestic division is exposed to disrespect abroad, and one party, if not both, is sure sooner or later to invoke foreign intervention.

Nations thus tempted to interfere are not always able to resist the counsels of seeming expediency and ungenerous ambition, although measures adopted under such influences seldom fail to be unfortunate and injurious to those adopting them.

The disloyal citizens of the United States who have offered the ruin of our country in return for the aid and comfort which they have invoked abroad have received less patronage and encouragement than they probably expected. If it were just to suppose, as the insurgents have seemed to assume, that foreign nations in this case, discarding all moral, social, and treaty obligations, would act solely and selfishly for the most speedy restoration of commerce, including especially the acquisition of cotton, those nations appear as yet not to have seen their way to their object more directly or clearly through the destruction than through the preservation of the Union. If we could dare to believe that foreign nations are actuated by no higher principle than this, I am quite sure a sound argument could be made to show them that they can reach their aim more readily and easily by aiding to crush this rebellion than by giving encouragement to it.

The principal lever relied on by the insurgents for exciting foreign nations to hostility against us, as already intimated, is the embarrassment of commerce. Those nations, however, not improbably saw from the first that it was the Union which made as well our foreign as our domestic commerce. They can scarcely have failed to perceive that the effort for disunion produces the existing difficulty, and that one strong nation promises more durable peace and a more extensive, valuable, and reliable commerce than can the same nation broken into hostile fragments.

It is not my purpose to review our discussions with foreign states, because, whatever might be their wishes or dispositions, the integrity of our country and the stability of our Government mainly depend not upon them, but on the loyalty, virtue, patriotism, and intelligence of the American people. The correspondence itself, with the usual reservations, is herewith submitted.

I venture to hope it will appear that we have practiced prudence and liberality toward foreign powers, averting causes of irritation and with firmness maintaining our own rights and honor.

Since, however, it is apparent that here, as in every other state, foreign dangers necessarily attend domestic difficulties, I recommend that adequate and ample measures be adopted for maintaining the public defenses on every side. While under this general recommendation provision for defending our seacoast line readily occurs to the mind, I also in the same connection ask the attention of Congress to our great lakes and rivers. It is believed that some fortifications and depots of arms and munitions, with harbor and navigation improvements, all at well-selected points upon these, would be of great importance to the national defense and preservation. I ask attention to the views of the Secretary of War, expressed in his report, upon the same general subject.

I deem it of importance that the loyal regions of east Tennessee and western North Carolina should be connected with Kentucky and other faithful parts of the Union by railroad. I therefore recommend, as a military measure, that Congress provide for the construction of such road as speedily as possible. Kentucky no doubt will cooperate, and through her legislature make the most judicious selection of a line. The northern terminus must connect with some existing railroad, and whether the route shall be from Lexington or Nicholasville to the Cumberland Gap, or from Lebanon to the Tennessee line, in the direction of Knoxville, or on some still different line, can easily be determined. Kentucky and the General Government cooperating, the work can be completed in a very short time, and when done it will be not only of vast present usefulness, but also a valuable permanent improvement, worth its cost in all the future.

Some treaties, designed chiefly for the interests of commerce, and having no grave political importance, have been negotiated, and will be submitted to the Senate for their consideration.

Although we have failed to induce some of the commercial powers to adopt a desirable melioration of the rigor of maritime war, we have removed all obstructions from the way of this humane reform except such as are merely of temporary and accidental occurrence.

I invite your attention to the correspondence between Her Britannic Majesty's minister accredited to this Government and the Secretary of State relative to the detention of the British ship Perthshire in June last by the United States steamer Massachusetts for a supposed breach of the blockade. As this detention was occasioned by an obvious misapprehension of the facts, and as justice requires that we should commit no belligerent act not rounded in strict right as sanctioned by public law, I recommend that an appropriation be made to satisfy the reasonable demand of the owners of the vessel for her detention.

I repeat the recommendation of my predecessor in his annual message to Congress in December last in regard to the disposition of the surplus which will probably remain after satisfying the claims of American citizens against China, pursuant to the awards of the commissioners under the act of the 3d of March, 1859. If, however, it should not be deemed advisable to carry that recommendation into effect, I would suggest that authority be given for investing the principal, over the proceeds of the surplus referred to, in good securities, with a view to the satisfaction of such other just claims of our citizens against China as are not unlikely to arise hereafter in the course of our extensive trade with that Empire.

By the act of the 5th of August last Congress authorized the President to instruct the commanders of suitable vessels to defend themselves against and to capture pirates. This authority has been exercised in a single instance only. For the more effectual protection of our extensive and valuable commerce in the Eastern seas especially, it seems to me that it would also be advisable to authorize the commanders of sailing vessels to recapture any prizes which pirates may make of United States vessels and their cargoes, and the consular courts now established by law in Eastern countries to adjudicate the cases in the event that this should not be objected to by the local authorities.

If any good reason exists why we should persevere longer in withholding our recognition of the independence and sovereignty of Hayti and Liberia, I am unable to discern it. Unwilling, however, to inaugurate a novel policy in regard to them without the approbation of Congress, I submit for your consideration the expediency of an appropriation for maintaining a charge' d'affaires near each of those new States. It does not admit of doubt that important commercial advantages might be secured by favorable treaties with them.

The operations of the Treasury during the period which has elapsed since your adjournment have been conducted with signal success. The patriotism of the people has placed at the disposal of the Government the large means demanded by the public exigencies. Much of the national loan has been taken by citizens of the industrial classes, whose confidence in their country's faith and zeal for their country's deliverance from present peril have induced them to contribute to the support of the Government the whole of their limited acquisitions. This fact imposes peculiar obligations to economy in disbursement and energy in action.

The revenue from all sources, including loans, for the financial year ending on the 30th of June, 1861, was $86,835,900.27, and the expenditures for the same period, including payments on account of the public debt, were $84,578,834.47, leaving a balance in the Treasury on the 1st of July of 52,257,065.80. For the first quarter of the financial year ending on the 30th of September, 1861, the receipts from all sources, including the balance of the 1st of July, were $102,532,509.27, and the expenses $98,239,733.09, leaving a balance on the 1st of October, 1861, of $4,292,776.18.

Estimates for the remaining three quarters of the year and for the financial year 1863, together with his views of ways and means for meeting the demands contemplated by them, will be submitted to Congress by the Secretary of the Treasury. It is gratifying to know that the expenditures made necessary by the rebellion are not beyond the resources of the loyal people, and to believe that the same patriotism which has thus far sustained the Government will continue to sustain it till peace and union shall again bless the land.

I respectfully refer to the report of the Secretary of War for information respecting the numerical strength of the Army and for recommendations having in view an increase of its efficiency and the well-being of the various branches of the service intrusted to his care. It is gratifying to know that the patriotism of the people has proved equal to the occasion, and that the number of troops tendered greatly exceeds the force which Congress authorized me to call into the field.

I refer with pleasure to those portions of his report which make allusion to the creditable degree of discipline already attained by our troops and to the excellent sanitary condition of the entire Army.

The recommendation of the Secretary for an organization of the militia upon a uniform basis is a subject of vital importance to the future safety of the country, and is commended to the serious attention of Congress.

The large addition to the Regular Army, in connection with the defection that has so considerably diminished the number of its officers, gives peculiar importance to his recommendation for increasing the corps of cadets to the greatest capacity of the Military Academy.

By mere omission, I presume, Congress has failed to provide chaplains for hospitals occupied by volunteers. This subject was brought to my notice, and I was induced to draw up the form of a letter, one copy of which, properly addressed, has been delivered to each of the persons, and at the dates respectively named and stated in a schedule, containing also the form of the letter marked A, and herewith transmitted.

These gentlemen, I understand, entered upon the duties designated at the times respectively stated in the schedule, and have labored faithfully therein ever since. I therefore recommend that they be compensated at the same rate as chaplains in the Army. I further suggest that general provision be made for chaplains to serve at hospitals, as well as with regiments.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy presents in detail the operations of that branch of the service, the activity and energy which have characterized its administration, and the results of measures to increase its efficiency and power. Such have been the additions, by construction and purchase, that it may almost be said a navy has been created and brought into service since our difficulties commenced.

Besides blockading our extensive coast, squadrons larger than ever before assembled under our flag have been put afloat and performed deeds which have increased our naval renown.

I would invite special attention to the recommendation of the Secretary for a more perfect organization of the Navy by introducing additional grades in the service.

The present organization is defective and unsatisfactory, and the suggestions submitted by the Department will, it is believed, if adopted, obviate the difficulties alluded to, promote harmony, and increase the efficiency of the Navy.

There are three vacancies on the bench of the Supreme Court--two by the decease of Justices Daniel and McLean and one by the resignation of Justice Campbell. I have so far forborne making nominations to fill these vacancies for reasons which I will now state. Two of the outgoing judges resided within the States now overrun by revolt, so that if successors were appointed in the same localities they could not now serve upon their circuits; and many of the most competent men there probably would not take the personal hazard of accepting to serve, even here, upon the Supreme bench. I have been unwilling to throw all the appointments northward, thus disabling myself from doing justice to the South on the return of peace; although I may remark that to transfer to the North one which has heretofore been in the South would not, with reference to territory and population, be unjust.

During the long and brilliant judicial career of Judge McLean his circuit grew into an empire altogether too large for any one judge to give the courts therein more than a nominal attendance--rising in population from 1,470,018 in 1830 to 6,151,405 in 1860.

Besides this, the country generally has outgrown our present judicial system. If uniformity was at all intended, the system requires that all the States shall be accommodated with circuit courts, attended by Supreme judges, while, in fact, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas, Florida, Texas, California, and Oregon have never had any such courts. Nor can this well be remedied without a change in the system, because the adding of judges to the Supreme Court, enough for the accommodation of all parts of the country with circuit courts, would create a court altogether too numerous for a judicial body of any sort. And the evil, if it be one, will increase as new States come into the Union. Circuit courts are useful or they are not useful. If useful, no State should be denied them; if not useful, no State should have them. Let them be provided for all or abolished as to all.

Three modifications occur to me, either of which, I think, would be an improvement upon our present system. Let the Supreme Court be of convenient number in every event; then, first, let the whole country be divided into circuits of convenient size, the Supreme judges to serve in a number of them corresponding to their own number, and independent circuit judges be provided for all the rest; or, secondly, let the Supreme judges be relieved from circuit duties and circuit judges provided for all the circuits; or, thirdly, dispense with circuit courts altogether, leaving the judicial functions wholly to the district courts and an independent Supreme Court.

I respectfully recommend to the consideration of Congress the present condition of the statute laws, with the hope that Congress will be able to find an easy remedy for many of the inconveniences and evils which constantly embarrass those engaged in the practical administration of them. Since the organization of the Government Congress has enacted some 5,000 acts and joint resolutions, which fill more than 6,000 closely printed pages and are scattered through many volumes. Many of these acts have been drawn in haste and without sufficient caution, so that their provisions are often obscure in themselves or in conflict with each other, or at least so doubtful as to render it very difficult for even the best-informed persons to ascertain precisely what the statute law really is.

It seems to me very important that the statute laws should be made as plain and intelligible as possible, and be reduced to as small a compass as may consist with the fullness and precision of the will of the Legislature and the perspicuity of its language. This well done would, I think, greatly facilitate the labors of those whose duty it is to assist in the administration of the laws, and would be a lasting benefit to the people, by placing before them in a more accessible and intelligible form the laws which so deeply concern their interests and their duties.

I am informed by some whose opinions I respect that all the acts of Congress now in force and of a permanent and general nature might be revised and rewritten so as to be embraced in one volume (or at most two volumes) of ordinary and convenient size; and I respectfully recommend to Congress to consider of the subject, and if my suggestion be approved to devise such plan as to their wisdom shall seem most proper for the attainment of the end proposed.

One of the unavoidable consequences of the present insurrection is the entire suppression in many places of all the ordinary means of administering civil justice by the officers and in the forms of existing law. This is the case, in whole or in part, in all the insurgent States; and as our armies advance upon and take possession of parts of those States the practical evil becomes more apparent. There are no courts nor officers to whom the citizens of other States may apply for the enforcement of their lawful claims against citizens of the insurgent States, and there is a vast amount of debt constituting such claims. Some have estimated it as high as $200,000,000, due in large part from insurgents in open rebellion to loyal citizens who are even now making great sacrifices in the discharge of their patriotic duty to support the Government.

Under these circumstances I have been urgently solicited to establish by military power courts to administer summary justice in such cases I have thus far declined to do it, not because I had any doubt that the end proposed--the collection of the debts--was just and right in itself, but because I have been unwilling to go beyond the pressure of necessity in the unusual exercise of power. But the powers of Congress, I suppose, are equal to the anomalous occasion, and therefore I refer the whole matter to Congress, with the hope that a plan may be devised for the administration of justice in all such parts of the insurgent States and Territories as may be under the control of this Government, whether by a voluntary return to allegiance and order or by the power of our arms; this, however, not to be a permanent institution, but a temporary substitute, and to cease as soon as the ordinay courts can be reestablished in peace.

It is important that some more convenient means should be provided, if possible, for the adjustment of claims against the Government, especially in view of their increased number by reason of the war. It is as much the duty of Government to render prompt justice against itself in favor of citizens as it is to administer the same between private individuals. The investigation and adjudication of claims in their nature belong to the judicial department. Besides, it is apparent that the attention of Congress will be more than usually engaged for some time to come with great national questions. It was intended by the organization of the Court of Claims mainly to remove this branch of business from the halls of Congress: but while the court has proved to be an effective and valuable means of investigation, it in great degree fails to effect the object of its creation for want of power to make its judgments final.

Fully aware of the delicacy, not to say the danger, of the subject, I commend to your careful consideration whether this power of making judgments final may not properly be given to the court, reserving the right of appeal on questions of law to the Supreme Court, with such other provisions as experience may have shown to be necessary.

I ask attention to the report of the Postmaster-General, the following being a summary statement of the condition of the Department:

The revenue from all sources during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1861, including the annual permanent appropriation of $700,000 for the transportation of "free mail matter," was $9,049,296.40, being about 2 per cent less than the revenue for 1860.

The expenditures were $13,606,759.11, showing a decrease of more than 8 per cent as compared with those of the previous year and leaving an excess of expenditure over the revenue for the last fiscal year of $4,557,462.71.

The gross revenue for the year ending June 30, 1863, is estimated at an increase of 4 per cent on that of 1861, making $8,683,000, to which should be added the earnings of the Department in carrying free matter, viz, $700,000, making $9,383,000.

The total expenditures for 1863 are estimated at $12,528,000, leaving an estimated deficiency of $3,145,000 to be supplied from the Treasury in addition to the permanent appropriation.

The present insurrection shows, I think, that the extension of this District across the Potomac River at the time of establishing the capital here was eminently wise, and consequently that the relinquishment of that portion of it which lies within the State of Virginia was unwise and dangerous. I submit for your consideration the expediency of regaining that part of the District and the restoration of the original boundaries thereof through negotiations with the State of Virginia.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior, with the accompanying documents, exhibits the condition of the several branches of the public business pertaining to that Department. The depressing influences of the insurrection have been specially felt in the operations of the Patent and General Land Offices. The cash receipts from the sales of public lands during the past year have exceeded the expenses of our land system only about $200,000. The sales have been entirely suspended in the Southern States, while the interruptions to the business of the country and the diversion of large numbers of men from labor to military service have obstructed settlements in the new States and Territories of the Northwest.

The receipts of the Patent Office have declined in nine months about $100,000, rendering a large reduction of the force employed necessary to make it self-sustaining.

The demands upon the Pension Office will be largely increased by the insurrection. Numerous applications for pensions, based upon the casualties of the existing war, have already been made. There is reason to believe that many who are now upon the pension rolls and in receipt of the bounty of the Government are in the ranks of the insurgent army or giving them aid and comfort. The Secretary of the Interior has directed a suspension of the payment of the pensions of such persons upon proof of their disloyalty. I recommend that Congress authorize that officer to cause the names of such persons to be stricken from the pension rolls.

The relations of the Government with the Indian tribes have been greatly disturbed by the insurrection, especially in the southern superintendency and in that of New Mexico. The Indian country south of Kansas is in the possession of insurgents from Texas and Arkansas. The agents of the United States appointed since the 4th of March for this superintendency have been unable to reach their posts, while the most of those who were in office before that time have espoused the insurrectionary cause, and assume to exercise the powers of agents by virtue of commissions from the insurrectionists. It has been stated in the public press that a portion of those Indians have been organized as a military force and are attached to the army of the insurgents. Although the Government has no official information upon this subject, letters have been written to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs by several prominent chiefs giving assurance of their loyalty to the United States and expressing a wish for the presence of Federal troops to protect them. It is believed that upon the repossession of the country by the Federal forces the Indians will readily cease all hostile demonstrations and resume their former relations to the Government.

Agriculture, confessedly the largest interest of the nation, has not a department nor a bureau, but a clerkship only, assigned to it in the Government. While it is fortunate that this great interest is so independent in its nature as to not have demanded and extorted more from the Government, I respectfully ask Congress to consider whether something more can not be given voluntarily with general advantage.

Annual reports exhibiting the condition of our agriculture, commerce, and manufactures would present a fund of information of great practical value to the country. While I make no suggestion as to details, I venture the opinion that an agricultural and statistical bureau might profitably be organized.

The execution of the laws for the suppression of the African slave trade has been confided to the Department of the Interior. It is a subject of gratulation that the efforts which have been made for the suppression of this inhuman traffic have been recently attended with unusual success. Five vessels being fitted out for the slave trade have been seized and condemned. Two mates of vessels engaged in the trade and one person in equipping a vessel as a slaver have been convicted and subjected to the penalty of fine and imprisonment, and one captain, taken with a cargo of Africans on board his vessel, has been convicted of the highest grade of offense under our laws, the punishment of which is death.

The Territories of Colorado, Dakota, and Nevada, created by the last Congress, have been organized, and civil administration has been inaugurated therein under auspices especially gratifying when it is considered that the leaven of treason was found existing in some of these new countries when the Federal officers arrived there.

The abundant natural resources of these Territories, with the security and protection afforded by organized government, will doubtless invite to them a large immigration when peace shall restore the business of the country to its accustomed channels. I submit the resolutions of the legislature of Colorado, which evidence the patriotic spirit of the people of the Territory. So far the authority of the United States has been upheld in all the Territories, as it is hoped it will be in the future. I commend their interests and defense to the enlightened and generous care of Congress.

I recommend to the favorable consideration of Congress the interests of the District of Columbia. The insurrection has been the cause of much suffering and sacrifice to its inhabitants, and as they have no representative in Congress that body should not overlook their just claims upon the Government.

At your late session a joint resolution was adopted authorizing the President to take measures for facilitating a proper representation of the industrial interests of the United States at the exhibition of the industry of all nations to be holden at London in the year 1862. I regret to say I have been unable to give personal attention to this subject--a subject at once so interesting in itself and so extensively and intimately connected with the material prosperity of the world. Through the Secretaries of State and of the Interior a plan or system has been devised and partly matured, and which will be laid before you.

Under and by virtue of the act of Congress entitled "An act to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes," approved August 6, 1861, the legal claims of certain persons to the labor and service of certain other persons have become forfeited, and numbers of the latter thus liberated are already dependent on the United States and must be provided for in some way. Besides this, it is not impossible that some of the States will pass similar enactments for their own benefit respectively, and by operation of which persons of the same class will be thrown upon them for disposal. In such case I recommend that Congress provide for accepting such persons from such States, according to some mode of valuation, in lieu, pro tanto, of direct taxes, or upon some other plan to be agreed on with such States respectively; that such persons, on such acceptance by the General Government, be at once deemed free, and that in any event steps be taken for colonizing both classes (or the one first mentioned if the other shall not be brought into existence) at some place or places in a climate congenial to them. It might be well to consider, too, whether the free colored people already in the United States could not, so far as individuals may desire, be included in such colonization.

To carry out the plan of colonization may involve the acquiring of territory, and also the appropriation of money beyond that to be expended in the territorial acquisition. Having practiced the acquisition of territory for nearly sixty years, the question of constitutional power to do so is no longer an open one with us. The power was questioned at first by Mr. Jefferson, who, however, in the purchase of Louisiana, yielded his scruples on the plea of great expediency. If it be said that the only legitimate object of acquiring territory is to furnish homes for white men, this measure effects that object, for the emigration of colored men leaves additional room for white men remaining or coming here. Mr. Jefferson, however, placed the importance of procuring Louisiana more on political and commercial grounds than on providing room for population.

On this whole proposition, including the appropriation of money with the acquisition of territory, does not the expediency amount to absolute necessity--that without which the Government itself can not be perpetuated ?

The war continues. In considering the policy to be adopted for suppressing the insurrection I have been anxious and careful that the inevitable conflict for this purpose shall not degenerate into a violent and remorseless revolutionary struggle. I have therefore in every case thought it proper to keep the integrity of the Union prominent as the primary object of the contest on our pan, leaving all questions which are not of vital military importance to the more deliberate action of the Legislature.

In the exercise of my best discretion I have adhered to the blockade of the ports held by the insurgents, instead of putting in force by proclamation the law of Congress enacted .at the late session for closing those ports.

So also, obeying the dictates of prudence, as well as the obligations of law, instead of transcending I have adhered to the act of Congress to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes. If a new law upon the same subject shall be proposed, its propriety will be duly considered. The Union must be preserved, and hence all indispensable means must be employed. We should not be in haste to determine that radical and extreme measures, which may reach the loyal as well as the disloyal, are indispensable.

The inaugural address at the beginning of the Administration and the message to Congress at the late special session were both mainly devoted to the domestic controversy out of which the insurrection and consequent war have sprung. Nothing now occurs to add or subtract to or from the principles or general purposes stated and expressed in those documents.

The last ray of hope for preserving the Union peaceably expired at the assault upon Fort Sumter, and a general review of what has occurred since may not be unprofitable. What was painfully uncertain then is much better defined and more distinct now, and the progress of events is plainly in the right direction. The insurgents confidently claimed a strong support from north of Mason and Dixon's line, and the friends of the Union were not free from apprehension on the point. This, however, was soon settled definitely, and on the right side. South of the line noble little Delaware led off right from the first. Maryland was made to seem against the Union. Our soldiers were assaulted, bridges were burned, and railroads torn up within her limits, and we were many days at one time without the ability to bring a single regiment over her soil to the capital. Now her bridges and railroads are repaired and open to the Government; she already gives seven regiments to the cause of the Union, and none to the enemy; and her people, at a regular election, have sustained the Union by a larger majority and a larger aggregate vote than they ever before gave to any candidate or any question. Kentucky, too, for some time in doubt, is now decidedly and, I think, unchangeably ranged on the side of the Union. Missouri is comparatively quiet, and, I believe, can not again be overrun by the insurrectionists. These three States of Maryland, Kentucky, and Missouri, neither of which would promise a single soldier at first, have now an aggregate of not less than 40,000 in the field for the Union, while of their citizens certainly not more than a third of that number, and they of doubtful whereabouts and doubtful existence, are in arms against us. After a somewhat bloody struggle of months, winter closes on the Union people of western Virginia, leaving them masters of their own country.

An insurgent force of about 1,500, for months dominating the narrow peninsular region constituting the counties of Accomac and Northampton, and known as Eastern Shore of Virginia, together with some contiguous parts of Maryland, have laid down their arms, and the people there have renewed their allegiance to and accepted the protection of the old flag. This leaves no armed insurrectionist north of the Potomac or east of the Chesapeake.

Also we have obtained a footing at each of the isolated points on the southern coast of Hatteras, Port Royal, Tybee Island (near Savannah), and Ship Island; and we likewise have some general accounts of popular movements in behalf of the Union in North Carolina and Tennessee.

These things demonstrate that the cause of the Union is advancing steadily and certainly southward.

Since your last adjournment Lieutenant-General Scott has retired from the head of the Army. During his long life the nation has not been unmindful of his merit; yet on calling to mind how faithfully, ably, and brilliantly he has served the country, from a time far back in our history, when few of the now living had been born, and thenceforward continually, I can not but think we are still his debtors. I submit, therefore, for your consideration what further mark of recognition is due to him, and to ourselves as a grateful people.

With the retirement of General Scott came the Executive duty of appointing in his stead a General in Chief of the Army. It is a fortunate circumstance that neither in council nor country was there, so far as I know, any difference of opinion as to the proper person to be selected. The retiring chief repeatedly expressed his judgment in favor of General McClellan for the position, and in this the nation seemed to give a unanimous concurrence. The designation of General McClellan is therefore in considerable degree the selection of the country as well as of the Executive, and hence there is better reason to hope there will be given him the confidence and cordial support thus by fair implication promised, and without which he can not with so full efficiency serve the country.

It has been said that one bad general is better than two good ones, and the saying is true if taken to mean no more than that an army is better directed by a single mind, though inferior, than by two superior ones at variance and cross-purposes with each other.

And the same is true in all joint operations wherein those engaged can have none but a common end in view and can differ only as to the choice of means. In a storm at sea no one on board can wish the ship to sink, and yet not unfrequently all go down together because too many will direct and no single mind can be allowed to control.

It continues to develop that the insurrection is largely, if not exclusively, a war upon the first principle of popular government--the rights of the people. Conclusive evidence of this is found in the most grave and maturely considered public documents, as well as in the general tone of the insurgents. In those documents we find the abridgment of the existing right of suffrage and the denial to the people of all right to participate in the selection of public officers except the legislative boldly advocated, with labored arguments to prove that large control of the people in government is the source of all political evil. Monarchy itself is sometimes hinted at as a possible refuge from the power of the people.

In my present position I could scarcely be justified were I to omit raising a warning voice against this approach of returning despotism.

It is not needed nor fitting here that a general argument should be made in favor of popular institutions, but there is one point, with its connections, not so hackneyed as most others, to which I ask a brief attention. It is the effort to place capital on an equal footing with, if not above, labor in the structure of government. It is assumed that labor is available only in connection with capital; that nobody labors unless somebody else, owning capital, somehow by the use of it induces him to labor. This assumed, it is next considered whether it is best that capital shall hire laborers, and thus induce them to work by their own consent, or buy them and drive them to it without their consent. Having proceeded so far, it is naturally concluded that all laborers are either hired laborers or what we call slaves. And further, it is assumed that whoever is once a hired laborer is fixed in that condition for life.

Now there is no such relation between capital and labor as assumed, nor is there any such thing as a free man being fixed for life in the condition of a hired laborer. Both these assumptions are false, and all inferences from them are groundless.

Labor is prior to and independent of capital. Capital is only the fruit of labor, and could never have existed if labor had not first existed. Labor is the superior of capital, and deserves much the higher consideration. Capital has its rights, which are as worthy of protection as any other rights. Nor is it denied that there is, and probably always will be, a relation between labor and capital producing mutual benefits. The error is in assuming that the whole labor of community exists within that relation. A few men own capital, and that few avoid labor themselves, and with their capital hire or buy another few to labor for them. A large majority belong to neither class--neither work for others nor have others working for them. In most of the Southern States a majority of the whole people of all colors are neither slaves nor masters, while in the Northern a large majority are neither hirers nor hired. Men, with their families--wives, sons, and daughters--work for themselves on their farms, in their houses, and in their shops, taking the whole product to themselves, and asking no favors of capital on the one hand nor of hired laborers or slaves on the other. It is not forgotten that a considerable number of persons mingle their own labor with capital; that is, they labor with their own hands and also buy or hire others to labor for them; but this is only a mixed and not a distinct class. No principle stated is disturbed by the existence of this mixed class.

Again, as has already been said, there is not of necessity any such thing as the free hired laborer being fixed to that condition for life. Many independent men everywhere in these States a few years back in their lives were hired laborers. The prudent, penniless beginner in the world labors for wages awhile, saves a surplus with which to buy tools or land for himself, then labors on his own account another while, and at length hires another new beginner to help him. This is the just and generous and prosperous system which opens the way to all, gives hope to all, and consequent energy and progress and improvement of condition to all. No men living are more worthy to be trusted than those who toil up from poverty; none less inclined to take or touch aught which they have not honestly earned. Let them beware of surrendering a political power which they already possess, and which if surrendered will surely be used to close the door of advancement against such as they and to fix new disabilities and burdens upon them till all of liberty shall be lost.

From the first taking of our national census to the last are seventy years, and we find our population at the end of the period eight times as great as it was at the beginning. The increase of those other things which men deem desirable has been even greater. We thus have at one view what the popular principle, applied to Government through the machiney, of the States and the Union, has produced in a given time, and also what if firmly maintained it promises for the future. There are already among us those who if the Union be preserved will live to see it contain 250,000,000. The struggle of to-day is not altogether for to-day; it is for a vast future also. With a reliance on Providence all the more firm and earnest, let us proceed in the great task which events have devolved upon us.

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

Since your last annual assembling another year of health and bountiful harvests has passed, and while it has not pleased the Almighty to bless us with a return of peace, we can but press on, guided by the best light He gives us, trusting that in His own good time and wise way all will yet be well.

The correspondence touching foreign affairs which has taken place during the last year is herewith submitted, in virtual compliance with a request to that effect made by the House of Representatives near the close of the last session of Congress. If the condition of our relations with other nations is less gratifying than it has usually been at former periods, it is certainly more satisfactory than a nation so unhappily distracted as we are might reasonably have apprehended. In the month of June last there were some grounds to expect that the maritime powers which at the beginning of our domestic difficulties so unwisely and unnecessarily, as we think, recognized the insurgents as a belligerent would soon recede from that position, which has proved only less injurious to themselves than to our own country. But the temporary reverses which afterwards befell the national arms, and which were exaggerated by our own disloyal citizens abroad, have hitherto delayed that act of simple justice.

The civil war, which has so radically changed for the moment the occupations and habits of the American people, has necessarily disturbed the social condition and affected very deeply the prosperity of the nations with which we have carried on a commerce that has been steadily increasing throughout a period of half a century. It has at the same time excited political ambitions and apprehensions which have produced a profound agitation throughout the civilized world. In this unusual agitation we have forborne from taking part in any controversy between foreign states and between parties or factions in such states. We have attempted no propagandism and acknowledged no revolution. But we have left to every nation the exclusive conduct and management of its own affairs. Our struggle has been, of course, contemplated by foreign nations with reference less to its own merits than to its supposed and often exaggerated effects and consequences resulting to those nations themselves. Nevertheless, complaint on the part of this Government, even if it were just, would certainly be unwise. The treaty with Great Britain for the suppression of the slave trade has been put into operation with a good prospect of complete success. It is an occasion of special pleasure to acknowledge that the execution of it on the part of Her Majesty's Government has been marked with a jealous respect for the authority of the United States and the rights of their moral and loyal citizens.

The convention with Hanover for the abolition of the Stade dues has been carried into full effect under the act of Congress for that purpose. A blockade of 3,000 miles of seacoast could not be established and vigorously enforced in a season of great commercial activity like the present without committing occasional mistakes and inflicting unintentional injuries upon foreign nations and their subjects. A civil war occurring in a country, where foreigners reside and carry on trade under treaty stipulations is necessarily fruitful of complaints of the violation of neutral rights. All such collisions tend to excite misapprehensions, and possibly to produce mutual reclamations between nations which have a common interest in preserving peace and friendship. In clear cases of these kinds I have so far as possible heard and redressed complaints which have been presented by friendly powers. There is still, however, a large and an augmenting number of doubtful cases upon which the Government is unable to agree with the governments whose protection is demanded by the claimants. There are, moreover, many cases in which the United States or their citizens suffer wrongs from the naval or military authorities of foreign nations which the governments of those states are not at once prepared to redress. I have proposed to some of the foreign states thus interested mutual conventions to examine and adjust such complaints. This proposition has been made especially to Great Britain, to France, to Spain, and to Prussia. In each case it has been kindly received, but has not yet been formally adopted.

I deem it my duty to recommend an appropriation in behalf of the owners of the Norwegian bark Admiral P. Tordenskiold, which vessel was in May, 1861, prevented by the commander of the blockading force off Charleston from leaving that port with cargo, notwithstanding a similar privilege had shortly before been granted to an English vessel. I have directed the Secretary of State to cause the papers in the case to be communicated to the proper committees.

Applications have been made to me by many free Americans of African descent to favor their emigration, with a view to such colonization as was contemplated in recent acts of Congress. Other parties, at home and abroad--some from interested motives, others upon patriotic considerations, and still others influenced by philanthropic sentiments--have suggested similar measures, while, on the other hand, several of the Spanish American Republics have protested against the sending of such colonies to their respective territories. Under these circumstances I have declined to move any such colony to any state without first obtaining the consent of its government, with an agreement on its part to receive and protect such emigrants in all the rights of freemen; and I have at the same time offered to the several States situated within the Tropics, or having colonies there, to negotiate with them, subject to the advice and consent of the Senate, to favor the voluntary emigration of persons of that class to their respective territories, upon conditions which shall be equal, just, and humane. Liberia and Hayti are as yet the only countries to which colonists of African descent from here could go with certainty of being received and adopted as citizens; and I regret to say such persons contemplating colonization do not seem so willing to migrate to those countries as to some others, nor so willing as I think their interest demands. I believe, however, opinion among them in this respect is improving, and that ere long there will be an augmented and considerable migration to both these countries from the United States.

The new commercial treaty between the United States and the Sultan of Turkey has been carried into execution.

A commercial and consular treaty has been negotiated, subject to the Senate's consent, with Liberia, and a similar negotiation is now pending with the Republic of Hayti. A considerable improvement of the national commerce is expected to result from these measures. Our relations with Great Britain, France, Spain, Portugal, Russia, Prussia, Denmark, Sweden, Austria, the Netherlands, Italy, Rome, and the other European States remain undisturbed. Very favorable relations also continue to be maintained with Turkey, Morocco, China, and Japan.

During the last year there has not only been no change of our previous relations with the independent States of our own continent, but more friendly sentiments than have heretofore existed are believed to be entertained by these neighbors, whose safety and progress are so intimately connected with our own. This statement especially applies to Mexico, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Honduras, Peru, and Chile. The commission under the convention with the Republic of New Granada closed its session without having audited and passed upon all the claims which were submitted to it. A proposition is pending to revive the convention, that it may be able to do more complete justice. The joint commission between the United States and the Republic of Costa Rica has completed its labors and submitted its report. I have favored the project for connecting the United States with Europe by an Atlantic telegraph, and a similar project to extend the telegraph from San Francisco to connect by a Pacific telegraph with the line which is being extended across the Russian Empire. The Territories of the United States, with unimportant exceptions have remained undisturbed by the civil war; and they are exhibiting such evidence of prosperity as justifies an expectation that some of them will soon be in a condition to be organized as States and be constitutionally admitted into the Federal Union.

The immense mineral resources of some of those Territories ought to be developed as rapidly as possible. Every step in that direction would have a tendency to improve the revenues of the Government and diminish the burdens of the people. It is worthy of your serious consideration whether some extraordinary measures to promote that end can not be adopted. The means which suggests itself as most likely to be effective is a scientific exploration of the mineral regions in those Territories with a view to the publication of its results at home and in foreign countries--results which can not fail to be auspicious.

The condition of the finances will claim your most diligent consideration. The vast expenditures incident to the military and naval operations required for the suppression of the rebellion have hitherto been met with a promptitude and certainty unusual in similar circumstances, and the public credit has been fully maintained. The continuance of the war, however, and the increased disbursements made necessary by the augmented forces now in the field demand your best reflections as to the best modes of providing the necessary revenue without injury to business and with the least possible burdens upon labor.

The suspension of specie payments by the banks soon after the commencement of your last session made large issues of United States notes unavoidable. In no other way could the payment of the troops and the satisfaction of other just demands be so economically or so well provided for. The judicious legislation of Congress, securing the receivability of these notes for loans and internal duties and making them a legal tender for other debts, has made them an universal currency, and has satisfied, partially at least, and for the time, the long-felt want of an uniform circulating medium, saving thereby to the people immense sums in discounts and exchanges.

A return to specie payments, however, at the earliest period compatible with due regard to all interests concerned should ever be kept in view. Fluctuations in the value of currency are always injurious, and to reduce these fluctuations to the lowest possible point will always be a leading purpose in wise legislation. Convertibility, prompt and certain convertibility, into coin is generally acknowledged to be the best and surest safeguard against them; and it is extremely doubtful whether a circulation of United States notes payable in coin and sufficiently large for the wants of the people can be permanently, usefully, and safely maintained.

Is there, then, any other mode in which the necessary provision for the public wants can be made and the great advantages of a safe and uniform currency secured?

I know of none which promises so certain results and is at the same time so unobjectionable as the organization of banking associations, under a general act of Congress, well guarded in its provisions. To such associations the Government might furnish circulating notes, on the security of United States bonds deposited in the Treasury. These notes, prepared under the supervision of proper officers, being uniform in appearance and security and convertible always into coin, would at once protect labor against the evils of a vicious currency and facilitate commerce by cheap and safe exchanges.

A moderate reservation from the interest on the bonds would compensate the United States for the preparation and distribution of the notes and a general supervision of the system, and would lighten the burden of that part of the public debt employed as securities. The public credit, moreover, would be greatly improved and the negotiation of new loans greatly facilitated by the steady market demand for Government bonds which the adoption of the proposed system would create. It is an additional recommendation of the measure, of considerable weight, in my judgment, that it would reconcile as far as possible all existing interests by the opportunity offered to existing institutions to reorganize under the act, substituting only the secured uniform national circulation for the local and various circulation, secured and unsecured, now issued by them.

The receipts into the treasury from all sources, including loans and balance from the preceding year, for the fiscal year ending on the 30th June, 1862, were $583,885,247.06, of which sum $49,056,397.62 were derived from customs; $1,795,331.73 from the direct tax; from public lands, $152,203.77; from miscellaneous sources, $931,787.64; from loans in all forms, $529,692,460.50. The remainder, :$2,257,065.80, was the balance from last year.

The disbursements during the same period were: For Congressional, executive, and judicial purposes, $5,939.009.29; for foreign intercourse, $1,339,710.35; for miscellaneous expenses, including the mints, loans, Post-Office deficiencies, collection of revenue, and other like charges, $14,129,771.50; for expenses under the Interior Department, 985.52; under the War Department, $394,368,407.36; under the Navy Department, $42,674,569.69; for interest on public debt, $13,190,324.45; and for payment of public debt, including reimbursement of temporary loan and redemptions, $96,096,922.09; making an aggregate of $570,841,700.25, and leaving a balance in the Treasury on the 1st day of July, 1862, of $13,043,546.81.

It should be observed that the sum of $96,096,922.09, expended for reimbursements and redemption of public debt, being included also in the loans made, may be properly deducted both from receipts and expenditures, leaving the actual receipts for the year $487,788,324.97, and the expenditures $474,744,778.16.

Other information on the subject of the finances will be found in the report of the Secretary of the Treasury, to whose statements and views I invite your most candid and considerate attention.

The reports of the Secretaries of War and of the Navy are herewith transmitted. These reports, though lengthy, are scarcely more than brief abstracts of the very numerous and extensive transactions and operations conducted through those Departments. Nor could I give a summary of them here upon any principle which would admit of its being much shorter than the reports themselves. I therefore content myself with laying the reports before you and asking your attention to them.

It gives me pleasure to report a decided improvement in the financial condition of the Post-Office Department as compared with several preceding years. The receipts for the fiscal year 1861 amounted to $8,349,296.40, which embraced the revenue from all the States of the Union for three quarters of that year. Notwithstanding the cessation of revenue from the so-called seceded States during the last fiscal year, the increase of the correspondence of the loyal States has been sufficient to produce a revenue during the same year of $8,299,820.90, being only $50,000 less than was derived from all the States of the Union during the previous year. The expenditures show a still more favorable result. The amount expended in 1861 was $13,606,759.11. For the last year the amount has been reduced to $11,125,364.13, showing a decrease of about $2,481,000 in the expenditures as compared with the preceding year, and about $3,750,000 as compared with the fiscal year 1860. The deficiency in the Department for the previous year was $4,551,966.98. For the last fiscal year it was reduced to $2,112,814.57. These favorable results are in part owing to the cessation of mail service in the insurrectionary States and in part to a careful review of all expenditures in that Department in the interest of economy. The efficiency of the postal service, it is believed, has also been much improved. The Postmaster-General has also opened a correspondence through the Department of State with foreign governments proposing a convention of postal representatives for the purpose of simplifying the rates of foreign postage and to expedite the foreign mails. This proposition, equally important to our adopted citizens and to the commercial interests of this country, has been favorably entertained and agreed to by all the governments from whom replies have been received.

I ask the attention of Congress to the suggestions of the Postmaster-General in his report respecting the further legislation required, in his opinion, for the benefit of the postal service.

The Secretary of the Interior reports as follows in regard to the public lands:

The public lands have ceased to be a source of revenue. From the 1st July, 1861, to the 30th September, 1862, the entire cash receipts from the sale of lands were $137,476.26—a sum much less than the expenses of our land system during the same period. The homestead law, which will take effect on the 1st of January next, offers such inducements to settlers that sales for cash can not be expected to an extent sufficient to meet the expenses of the General Land Office and the cost of surveying and bringing the land into market. The discrepancy between the sum here stated as arising from the sales of the public lands and the sum derived from the same source as reported from the Treasury Department arises, as I understand, from the fact that the periods of time, though apparently, were not really coincident at the beginning point, the Treasury report including a considerable sum now which had previously been reported from the Interior, sufficiently large to greatly overreach the sum derived from the three months now reported upon by the Interior and not by the Treasury.

The Indian tribes upon our frontiers have during the past year manifested a spirit of insubordination, and at several points have engaged in open hostilities against the white settlements in their vicinity. The tribes occupying the Indian country south of Kansas renounced their allegiance to the United States and entered into treaties with the insurgents. Those who remained loyal to the United States were driven from the country. The chief of the Cherokees has visited this city for the purpose of restoring the former relations of the tribe with the United States. He alleges that they were constrained by superior force to enter into treaties with the insurgents, and that the United States neglected to furnish the protection which their treaty stipulations required.

In the month of August last the Sioux Indians in Minnesota attacked the settlements in their vicinity with extreme ferocity, killing indiscriminately men, women, and children. This attack was wholly unexpected, and therefore no means of defense had been prodded. It is estimated that not less than 800 persons were killed by the Indians, and a large amount of property was destroyed. How this outbreak was induced is not definitely known, and suspicions, which may be unjust, need not to be stated. Information was received by the Indian Bureau from different sources about the time hostilities were commenced that a simultaneous attack was to be made upon the white settlements by all the tribes between the Mississippi River and the Rocky Mountains. The State of Minnesota has suffered great injury from this Indian war. A large portion of her territory has been depopulated, and a severe loss has been sustained by the destruction of property. The people of that State manifest much anxiety for the removal of the tribes beyond the limits of the State as a guaranty against future hostilities. The Commissioner of Indian Affairs will furnish full details. I submit for your especial consideration whether our Indian system shall not be remodeled. Many wise and good men have impressed me with the belief that this can be profitably done.

I submit a statement of the proceedings of commissioners, which shows the progress that has been made in the enterprise of constructing the Pacific Railroad. And this suggests the earliest completion of this road, and also the favorable action of Congress upon the projects now pending before them for enlarging the capacities of the great canals in New York and Illinois, as being of vital and rapidly increasing importance to the whole nation, and especially to the vast interior region hereinafter to be noticed at some greater length. I purpose having prepared and laid before you at an early day some interesting and valuable statistical information upon this subject. The military and commercial importance of enlarging the Illinois and Michigan Canal and improving the Illinois River is presented in the report of Colonel Webster to the Secretary of War, and now transmitted to Congress. I respectfully ask attention to it.

To carry out the provisions of the act of Congress of the 15th of May last, I have caused the Department of Agriculture of the United States to be organized.

The Commissioner informs me that within the period of a few months this Department has established an extensive system of correspondence and exchanges, both at home and abroad, which promises to effect highly beneficial results in the development of a correct knowledge of recent improvements in agriculture, in the introduction of new products, and in the collection of the agricultural statistics of the different States.

Also, that it will soon be prepared to distribute largely seeds, cereals, plants, and cuttings, and has already published and liberally diffused much valuable information in anticipation of a more elaborate report, which will in due time be furnished, embracing some valuable tests in chemical science now in progress in the laboratory.

The creation of this Department was for the more immediate benefit of a large class of our most valuable citizens, and I trust that the liberal basis upon which it has been organized will not only meet your approbation, but that it will realize at no distant day all the fondest anticipations of its most sanguine friends and become the fruitful source of advantage to all our people.

On the 22d day of September last a proclamation was issued by the Executive, a copy of which is herewith submitted. In accordance with the purpose expressed in the second paragraph of that paper, I now respectfully recall your attention to what may be called "compensated emancipation."

A nation may be said to consist of its territory, its people, and its laws. The territory is the only part which is of certain durability. "One generation passeth away and another generation cometh, but the earth abideth forever." It is of the first importance to duly consider and estimate this ever-enduring part. That portion of the earth's surface which is owned and inhabited by the people of the United States is well adapted to be the home of one national family, and it is not well adapted for two or more. Its vast extent and its variety of climate and productions are of advantage in this age for one people, whatever they might have been in former ages. Steam, telegraphs, and intelligence have brought these to be an advantageous combination for one united people.

In the inaugural address I briefly pointed out the total inadequacy of disunion as a remedy for the differences between the people of the two sections. I did so in language which I can not improve, and which, therefore, I beg to repeat:

One section of our country believes slavery is right and ought to be extended, while the other believes it is wrong and ought not to be extended. This is the only substantial dispute. The fugitive-slave clause of the Constitution and the law for the suppression of the foreign slave trade are each as well enforced, perhaps, as any law can ever be in a community where the moral sense of the people imperfectly supports the law itself. The great body of the people abide by the dry legal obligation in both cases, and a few break over in each. This I think, can not be perfectly cured, and it would be worse in both cases after the separation of the sections than before. The foreign slave trade, now imperfectly suppressed, would be ultimately revived without restriction in one section, while fugitive slaves, now only partially surrendered, would not be surrendered at all by the other. Physically speaking, we can not separate. We can not remove our respective sections from each other nor build an impassable wall between them. A husband and wife may be divorced and go out of the presence and beyond the reach of each other, but the different parts of our country can not do this. They can not but remain face to face, and intercourse, either amicable or hostile, must continue between them, Is it possible, then, to make that intercourse more advantageous or more satisfactory after separation than before? Can aliens make treaties easier than friends can make laws? Can treaties be more faithfully enforced between aliens than laws can among friends? Suppose you go to war, you can not fight always; and when, after much loss on both sides and no gain on either, you cease fighting, the identical old questions, as to terms of intercourse, are again upon you.

There is no line, straight or crooked, suitable for a national boundary upon which to divide. Trace through, from east to west, upon the line between the free and slave country. and we shall find a little more than one-third of its length are rivers, easy to be crossed, and populated, or soon to be populated, thickly upon both sides; while nearly all its remaining length are merely surveyors' lines, over which people may walk back and forth without any consciousness of their presence. No part of this line can be made any more difficult to pass by writing it down on paper or parchment as a national boundary. The fact of separation, if it comes, gives up on the part of the seceding section the fugitive-slave clause, along with all other constitutional obligations upon the section seceded from, while I should expect no treaty stipulation would ever be made to take its place.

But there is another difficulty. The great interior region bounded east by the Alleghanies, north by the British dominions, west by the Rocky Mountains, and south by the line along which the culture of corn and cotton meets, and which includes part of Virginia, part of Tennessee, all of Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, Iowa, Minnesota, and the Territories of Dakota, Nebraska, and part of Colorado, already has above 10,000,000 people, and will have 50,000,000 within fifty years if not prevented by any political folly or mistake. It contains more than one-third of the country owned by the United States--certainly more than 1,000,000 square miles. Once half as populous as Massachusetts already is, it would have more than 75,000,000 people. A glance at the map shows that, territorially speaking, it is the great body of the Republic. The other parts are but marginal borders to it. the magnificent region sloping west from the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific being the deepest and also the richest in undeveloped resources. In the production of provisions grains, grasses, and all which proceed from them this great interior region is naturally one of the most important in the world. Ascertain from the statistics the small proportion of the region which has as yet been brought into cultivation, and also the large and rapidly increasing amount of its products, and we shall be overwhelmed with the magnitude of the prospect presented. And yet this region has no seacoast--touches no ocean anywhere. As part of one nation, its people now find, and may forever find, their way to Europe by New York, to South America and Africa by New Orleans, and to Asia by San Francisco; but separate our common country into two nations, as designed by the present rebellion, and every man of this great interior region is thereby cut off from some one or more of these outlets, not perhaps by a physical barrier, but by embarrassing and onerous trade regulations.

And this is true, wherever a dividing or boundary line may be fixed. Place it between the now free and slave country, or place it south of Kentucky or north of Ohio, and still the truth remains that none south of it can trade to any port or place north of it, and none north of it can trade to any port or place south of it, except upon terms dictated by a government foreign to them. These outlets, east, west, and south, are indispensable to the well-being of the people inhabiting and to inhabit this vast interior region. Which of the three may be the best is no proper question. All are better than either, and all of right belong to that people and to their successors forever. True to themselves, they will not ask where a line of separation shall be, but will vow rather that there shall be no such line. Nor are the marginal regions less interested in these communications to and through them to the great outside world. They, too, and each of them, must have access to this Egypt of the West without paying toll at the crossing of any national boundary.

Our national strife springs not from our permanent part; not from the land we inhabit: not from our national homestead. There is no possible severing of this but would multiply and not mitigate evils among us. In all its adaptations and aptitudes it demands union and abhors separation. In fact, it would ere long force reunion, however much of blood and treasure the separation might have cost. Our strife pertains to ourselves—to the passing generations of men—and it can without convulsion be hushed forever with the passing of one generation.

In this view I recommend the adoption of the following resolution and articles amendatory to the Constitution of the United States:

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled (two-thirds of both Houses

concurring), That the following articles be proposed to the legislatures (or conventions) of the several States as amendments to the

Constitution of the United States, all or any of which articles, when ratified by three-fourths of the said legislatures (or conventions ), to be

valid as part or parts of the said Constitution, viz:

ART.—. Every State wherein slavery now exists which shall abolish the same therein at any time or times before the 1st day of January., A.D. 1900, shall receive compensation from the United States as follows, to wit:

The President of the United States shall deliver to every such State bonds of the United States bearing interest at the rate of per cent per annum to an amount equal to the aggregate sum of____for each slave shown to have been therein by the Eighth Census of the United States, said bonds to be delivered to such State by installments or in one parcel at the completion of the abolishment, accordingly as the same shall have been gradual or at one time within such State; and interest shall begin to run upon any such bond only from the proper time of its delivery as aforesaid. Any State having received bonds as aforesaid and afterwards reintroducing or tolerating slavery therein shall refund to the United States the bonds so received, or the value thereof, and all interest paid thereon.

ART—All slaves who shall have enjoyed actual freedom by the chances of the war at any time before the end of the rebellion shall be forever free; but all owners of such who shall not have been disloyal shall be compensated for them at the same rates as is provided for States adopting abolishment of slavery, but in such way that no slave shall be twice accounted for.

ART.—Congress may appropriate money and otherwise provide for colonizing free colored persons with their own consent at any place or places without the United States.

I beg indulgence to discuss these proposed articles at some length. Without slavery the rebellion could never have existed; without slavery it could not continue.

Among the friends of the Union there is great diversity of sentiment and of policy in regard to slavery and the African race amongst us. Some would perpetuate slavery; some would abolish it suddenly and without compensation; some would abolish it gradually and with compensation: some would remove the freed people from us, and some would retain them with us; and there are yet other minor diversities. Because of these diversities we waste much strength in struggles among ourselves. By mutual concession we should harmonize and act together. This would be compromise, but it would be compromise among the friends and not with the enemies of the Union. These articles are intended to embody a plan of such mutual concessions. if the plan shall be adopted, it is assumed that emancipation will follow, at least in several of the States.

As to the first article, the main points are, first, the emancipation; secondly, the length of time for consummating it (thirty-seven years); and, thirdly, the compensation.

The emancipation will be unsatisfactory to the advocates of perpetual slavery, but the length of time should greatly mitigate their dissatisfaction. The time spares both races from the evils of sudden derangement—in fact, from the necessity of any derangement—while most of those whose habitual course of thought will be disturbed by the measure will have passed away before its consummation. They will never see it. Another class will hail the prospect of emancipation, but will deprecate the length of time. They will feel that it gives too little to the now living slaves. But it really gives them much. It saves them from the vagrant destitution which must largely attend immediate emancipation in localities where their numbers are very great, and it gives the inspiring assurance that their posterity shall be free forever. The plan leaves to each State choosing to act under it to abolish slavery now or at the end of the century, or at any intermediate time, or by degrees extending over the whole or any part of the period, and it obliges no two States to proceed alike. It also provides for compensation, and generally the mode of making it. This, it would seem, must further mitigate the dissatisfaction of those who favor perpetual slavery, and especially of those who are to receive the compensation. Doubtless some of those who are to pay and not to receive will object. Yet the measure is both just and economical. In a certain sense the liberation of slaves is the destruction of property—property acquired by descent or by purchase, the same as any other property. It is no less true for having been often said that the people of the South are not more responsible for the original introduction of this property than are the people of the North; and when it is remembered how unhesitatingly we all use cotton and sugar and share the profits of dealing in them, it may not be quite safe to say that the South has been more responsible than the North for its continuance. If, then, for a common object this property is to be sacrificed, is it not just that it be done at a common charge?

And if with less money, or money more easily paid, we can preserve the benefits of the Union by this means than we can by the war alone, is it not also economical to do it? Let us consider it, then. Let us ascertain the sum we have expended in the war since compensated emancipation was proposed last March, and consider whether if that measure had been promptly accepted by even some of the slave States the same sum would not have done more to close the war than has been otherwise done. If so, the measure would save money, and in that view would be a prudent and economical measure. Certainly it is not so easy to pay something as it is to pay nothing, but it is easier to pay a large sum than it is to pay a larger one. And it is easier to pay any sum when we are able than it is to pay it before we are able. The war requires large sums, and requires them at once. The aggregate sum necessary for compensated emancipation of course would be large. But it would require no ready cash, nor the bonds even any faster than the emancipation progresses. This might not, and probably would not, close before the end of the thirty-seven years. At that time we shall probably have a hundred millions of people to share the burden, instead of thirty-one millions as now. And not only so, but the increase of our population may be expected to continue for a long time after that period as rapidly as before, because our territory will not have become full. I do not state this inconsiderately. At the same ratio of increase which we have maintained, on an average, from our first national census, in 1790, until that of 1860, we should in 1900 have a population of 103,208,415. And why may we not continue that ratio far beyond that period? Our abundant room, our broad national homestead, is our ample resource. Were our territory as limited as are the British Isles, very certainly our population could not expand as stated. Instead of receiving the foreign born as now, we should be compelled to send part of the native born away. But such is not our condition. We have 2,963,000 square miles. Europe has 3,800,000, with a population averaging 73 1/3 persons to the square mile. Why may not our country at some time average as many? Is it less fertile? Has it more waste surface by mountains, rivers, lakes, deserts, or other causes? Is it inferior to Europe in any natural advantage? If, then, we are at some time to be as populous as Europe, how soon? As to when this may be, we can judge by the past and the present; as to when it will be, if ever, depends much on whether we maintain the Union. Several of our States are already above the average of Europe 73 1/3 to the square mile. Massachusetts has 157; Rhode Island, 133; Connecticut, 99; New York and New Jersey, each 80. Also two other great States, Pennsylvania and Ohio, are not far below, the former having 63 and the latter 59. The States already above the European average, except New York, have increased in as rapid a ratio since passing that point as ever before, while no one of them is equal to some other parts of our country in natural capacity for sustaining a dense population.

These figures show that our country may be as populous as Europe now is at some point between 1920 and 1930—say about 1925—our territory, at 73 1/3 persons to the square mile, being of capacity to contain 217,186,000.

And we will reach this, too, if we do not ourselves relinquish the chance by the folly and evils of disunion or by long and exhausting war springing from the only great element of national discord among us. While it can not be foreseen exactly how much one huge example of secession, breeding lesser ones indefinitely, would retard population, civilization, and prosperity, no one can doubt that the extent of it would be very great and injurious.

The proposed emancipation would shorten the war, perpetuate peace, insure this increase of population, and proportionately the wealth of the country. With these we should pay all the emancipation would cost, together with our other debt, easier than we should pay our other debt without it. If we had allowed our old national debt to run at 6 per cent per annum, simple interest, from the end of our revolutionary struggle until to-day, without paying anything on either principal or interest, each man of us would owe less upon that debt now than each man owed upon it then; and this because our increase of men through the whole period has been greater than 6 per cent—has run faster than the interest upon the debt. Thus time alone relieves a debtor nation, so long as its population increases faster than unpaid interest accumulates on its debt.

This fact would be no excuse for delaying payment of what is justly due, but it shows the great importance of time in this connection—the great advantage of a policy by which we shall not have to pay until we number 100,000,000 what by a different policy we would have to pay now, when we number but 31,000,000. In a word, it shows that a dollar will be much harder to pay for the war than will be a dollar for emancipation on the proposed plan. And then the latter will cost no blood, no precious life. It will be a saving of both.

As to the second article, I think it would be impracticable to return to bondage the class of persons therein contemplated. Some of them, doubtless, in the property sense belong to loyal owners, and hence provision is made in this article for compensating such. The third article relates to the future of the freed people. It does not oblige, but merely authorizes Congress to aid in colonizing such as may consent. This ought not to be regarded as objectionable on the one hand or on the other, insomuch as it comes to nothing unless by the mutual consent of the people to be deported and the American voters, through their representatives in Congress.

I can not make it better known than it already is that I strongly favor colonization; and yet I wish to say there is an objection urged against free colored persons remaining in the country which is largely imaginary, if not sometimes malicious.

It is insisted that their presence would injure and displace white labor and white laborers. If there ever could be a proper time for mere catch arguments, that time surely is not now. In times like the present men should utter nothing for which they would not willingly be responsible through time and in eternity. Is it true, then, that colored people can displace any more white labor by being free than by remaining slaves? If they stay in their old places, they jostle no white laborers; if they leave their old places, they leave them open to white laborers. Logically, there is neither more nor less of it. Emancipation, even without deportation, would probably enhance the wages of white labor, and very surely would not reduce them. Thus the customary amount of labor would still have to be performed—the freed people would surely not do more than their old proportion of it, and very probably for a time would do less, leaving an increased part to white laborers, bringing their labor into greater demand, and consequently enhancing the wages of it. With deportation, even to a limited extent, enhanced wages to white labor is mathematically certain. Labor is like any other commodity in the market—increase the demand for it and you increase the price of it. Reduce the supply of black labor by colonizing the black laborer out of the country, and by precisely so much you increase the demand for and wages of white labor.

But it is dreaded that the freed people will swarm forth and cover the whole land. Are they not already in the land? Will liberation make them any more numerous? Equally distributed among the whites of the whole country, and there would be but one colored to seven whites. Could the one in any way greatly disturb the seven? There are many communities now having more than one free colored person to seven whites and this without any apparent consciousness of evil from it. The District of Columbia and the States of Maryland and Delaware are all in this condition. The District has more than one free colored to six whites, and yet in its frequent petitions to Congress I believe it has never presented the presence of free colored persons as one of its grievances. But why should emancipation South send the free people North? People of any color seldom run unless there be something to run from. Hertofore colored people to some extent have fled North from bondage, and now, perhaps, from both bondage and destitution. But if gradual emancipation and deportation be adopted, they will have neither to flee from. Their old masters will give them wages at least until new laborers can be procured, and the freedmen in turn will gladly give their labor for the wages till new homes can be found for them in congenial climes and with people of their own blood and race. This proposition can be trusted on the mutual interests involved. And in any event, can not the North decide for itself whether to receive them?

Again, as practice proves more than theory in any case, has there been any irruption of colored people northward because of the abolishment of slavery in this District last spring?

What I have said of the proportion of free colored persons to the whites in the District is from the census of 1860, having no reference to persons called contrabands nor to those made free by the act of Congress abolishing slavery here.

The plan consisting of these articles is recommended, not but that a restoration of the national authority would be accepted without its adoption.

Nor will the war nor proceedings under the proclamation of September 22, 1862, be stayed because of the recommendation of this plan. Its timely adoption, I doubt not, would bring restoration, and thereby stay both.

And notwithstanding this plan, the recommendation that Congress provide by law for compensating any State which may adopt emancipation before this plan shall have been acted upon is hereby earnestly renewed. Such would be only an advance part of the plan, and the same arguments apply to both.

This plan is recommended as a means, not in exclusion of, but additional to, all others for restoring and preserving the national authority throughout the Union. The subject is presented exclusively in its economical aspect. The plan would, I am confident, secure peace more speedily and maintain it more permanently than can be done by force alone, while all it would cost, considering amounts and manner of payment and times of payment, would be easier paid than will be the additional cost of the war if we rely solely upon force. It is much, very much, that it would cost no blood at all.

The plan is proposed as permanent constitutional law. It can not become such without the concurrence of, first, two-thirds of Congress, and afterwards three-fourths of the States. The requisite three-fourths of the States will necessarily include seven of the slave States. Their concurrence, if obtained, will give assurance of their severally adopting emancipation at no very distant day upon the new constitutional terms. This assurance would end the struggle now and save the Union forever.

I do not forget the gravity which should characterize a paper addressed to the Congress of the nation by the Chief Magistrate of the nation, nor do I forget that some of you are my seniors, nor that many of you have more experience than I in the conduct of public affairs. Yet I trust that in view of the great responsibility resting upon me you will perceive no want of respect to yourselves in any undue earnestness I may seem to display.

Is it doubted, then, that the plan I propose, if adopted, would shorten the war, and thus lessen its expenditure of money and of blood? Is it doubted that it would restore the national authority and national prosperity and perpetuate both indefinitely? Is it doubted that we here—Congress and Executive can secure its adoption? Will not the good people respond to a united and earnest appeal from us? Can we, can they, by any other means so certainly or so speedily assure these vital objects? We can succeed only by concert. It is not "Can any of us imagine better?" but "Can we all do better?" Object whatsoever is possible, still the question recurs, "Can we do better?" The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise with the occasion. As our case is new, so we must think anew and act anew. We must disenthrall ourselves, and then we shall save our country.

Fellow-citizens, we can not escape history. We of this Congress and this Administration will be remembered in spite of ourselves. No personal significance or insignificance can spare one or another of us. The fiery trial through which we pass will light us down in honor or dishonor to the latest generation. We say we are for the Union. The world will not forget that we say this. We know how to save the Union. The world knows we do know how to save it. We, even we here, hold the power and bear the responsibility. In giving freedom to the slave we assure freedom to the free—honorable alike in what we give and what we preserve. We shall nobly save or meanly lose the last best hope of earth. Other means may succeed; this could not fail. The way is plain, peaceful, generous, just—a way which if followed the world will forever applaud and God must forever bless.

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

Another year of health and of sufficiently abundant harvests has passed. For these, and especially for the improved condition of our national affairs, our renewed and profoundest gratitude to God is due.

We remain in peace and friendship with foreign powers.

The efforts of disloyal citizens of the United States to involve us in foreign wars to aid an inexcusable insurrection have been unavailing. Her Britannic Majesty's Government, as was justly expected, have exercised their authority to prevent the departure of new hostile expeditions from British ports. The Emperor of France has by a like proceeding promptly vindicated the neutrality which he proclaimed at the beginning of the contest. Questions of great intricacy and importance have arisen out of the blockade and other belligerent operations between the Government and several of the maritime powers, but they have been discussed and, as far as was possible, accommodated in a spirit of frankness, justice, and mutual good will. It is especially gratifying that our prize courts, by the impartiality of their adjudications, have commanded the respect and confidence of maritime powers.

The supplemental treaty between the United States and Great Britain for the suppression of the African slave trade, made on the 17th day of February last, has been duly ratified and carried into execution. It is believed that so far as American ports and American citizens are concerned that inhuman and odious traffic has been brought to an end.

I shall submit for the consideration of the Senate a convention for the adjustment of possessory claims in Washington Territory arising out of the treaty of the 15th June, 1846, between the United States and Great Britain, and which have been the source of some disquiet among the citizens of that now rapidly improving part of the country.

A novel and important question, involving the extent of the maritime jurisdiction of Spain in the waters which surround the island of Cuba, has been debated without reaching an agreement, and it is proposed in an amicable spirit to refer it to the arbitrament of a friendly power. A convention for that purpose will be submitted to the Senate.

I have thought it proper, subject to the approval of the Senate, to concur with the interested commercial powers in an arrangement for the liquidation of the Scheldt dues, upon the principles which have been heretofore adopted in regard to the imposts upon navigation in the waters of Denmark.

The long-pending controversy between this Government and that of Chile touching the seizure at Sitana, in Peru, by Chilean officers, of a large amount in treasure belonging to citizens of the United States has been brought to a close by the award of His Majesty the King of the Belgians, to whose arbitration the question was referred by the parties. The subject was thoroughly and patiently examined by that justly respected magistrate, and although the sum awarded to the claimants may not have been as large as they expected there is no reason to distrust the wisdom of His Majesty's decision. That decision was promptly complied with by Chile when intelligence in regard to it reached that country.

The joint commission under the act of the last session for carrying into effect the convention with Peru on the subject of claims has been organized at Lima, and is engaged in the business intrusted to it.

Difficulties concerning interoceanic transit through Nicaragua are in course of amicable adjustment.

In conformity with principles set forth in my last annual message, I have received a representative from the United States of Colombia, and have accredited a minister to that Republic.

Incidents occurring in the progress of our civil war have forced upon my attention the uncertain state of international questions touching the rights of foreigners in this country and of United States citizens abroad. In regard to some governments these rights are at least partially, defined by treaties. In no instance, however, is it expressly stipulated that in the event of civil war a foreigner residing in this country within the lines of the insurgents is to be exempted from the rule which classes him as a belligerent, in whose behalf the Government or his country can not expect any privileges or immunities distinct from that character. I regret to say, however, that such claims have been put forward, and in some instances in behalf of foreigners who have lived in the United States the greater part of their lives.

There is reason to believe that many persons born in foreign countries who have declared their intention to become citizens, or who have been fully naturalized, have evaded the military duty required of them by denying the fact and thereby throwing upon the Government the burden of proof. It has been found difficult or impracticable to obtain this proof, from the want of guides to the proper sources of information. These might be supplied by requiring clerks of courts where declarations of intention may be made or naturalizations effected to send periodically lists of the names of the persons naturalized or declaring their intention to become citizens to the Secretary of the Interior, in whose Department those names might be arranged and printed for general information.

There is also reason to believe that foreigners frequently become citizens of the United States for the sole purpose of evading duties imposed by the laws of their native countries, to which on becoming naturalized here they at once repair, and though never returning to the United States they still claim the interposition of this Government as citizens. Many altercations and great prejudices have heretofore arisen out of this abuse. It is therefore submitted to your serious consideration. It might be advisable to fix a limit beyond which no citizen of the United States residing abroad may claim the interposition of his Government.

The right of suffrage has often been assumed and exercised by aliens under pretenses of naturalization, which they have disavowed when drafted into the military service. I submit the expediency of such an amendment of the law as will make the fact of voting an estoppel against any plea of exemption from military service or other civil obligation on the ground of alienage.

In common with other Western powers, our relations with Japan have been brought into serious jeopardy through the perverse opposition of the hereditary aristocracy of the Empire to the enlightened and liberal policy of the Tycoon, designed to bring the country into the society of nations. It is hoped, although not with entire confidence, that these difficulties may be peacefully overcome. I ask your attention to the claim of the minister residing there for the damages he sustained in the destruction by fire of the residence of the legation at Yedo.

Satisfactory arrangements have been made with the Emperor of Russia, which, it is believed, will result in effecting a continuous line of telegraph through that Empire from our Pacific coast.

I recommend to your favorable consideration the subject of an international telegraph across the Atlantic Ocean, and also of a telegraph between this capital and the national forts along the Atlantic seaboard and the Gulf of Mexico. Such communications, established with any reasonable outlay, would be economical as well as effective aids to the diplomatic, military, and naval service.

The consular system of the United States, under the enactments of the last Congress, begins to be self-sustaining, and there is reason to hope that it may become entirely so with the increase of trade which will ensue whenever peace is restored. Our ministers abroad have been faithful in defending American rights. In protecting commercial interests our consuls have necessarily had to encounter increased labors and responsibilities growing out of the war. These they have for the most part met and discharged with zeal and efficiency. This acknowledgment justly includes those consuls who, residing in Morocco, Egypt, Turkey, Japan, China, and other Oriental countries, are charged with complex functions and extraordinary powers.

The condition of the several organized Territories is generally satisfactory, although Indian disturbances in New Mexico have not been entirely suppressed. The mineral resources of Colorado, Nevada, Idaho, New Mexico, and Arizona are proving far richer than has been heretofore understood. I lay before you a communication on this subject from the governor of New Mexico. I again submit to your consideration the expediency of establishing a system for the encouragement of immigration. Although this source of national wealth and strength is again flowing with greater freedom than for several years before the insurrection occurred, there is still a great deficiency of laborers in every field of industry, especially in agriculture and in our mines, as well of iron and coal as of the precious metals. While the demand for labor is much increased here, tens of thousands of persons, destitute of remunerative occupation, are thronging our foreign consulates and offering to emigrate to the United States if essential, but very cheap, assistance can be afforded them. It is easy to see that under the sharp discipline of civil war the nation is beginning a new life. This noble effort demands the aid and ought to receive the attention and support of the Government.

Injuries unforeseen by the Government and unintended may in some cases have been inflicted on the subjects or citizens of foreign countries, both at sea and on land, by persons in the service of the United States. As this Government expects redress from other powers when similar injuries are inflicted by persons in their service upon citizens of the United States, we must be prepared to do justice to foreigners. If the existing judicial tribunals are inadequate to this purpose, a special court may be authorized, with power to hear and decide such claims of the character referred to as may have arisen under treaties and the public law. Conventions for adjusting the claims by joint commission have been proposed to some governments, but no definitive answer to the proposition has yet been received from any.

In the course of the session I shall probably have occasion to request you to provide indemnification to claimants where decrees of restitution have been rendered and damages awarded by admiralty courts, and in other cases where this Government may be acknowledged to be liable in principle and where the amount of that liability has been ascertained by an informal arbitration.

The proper officers of the Treasury have deemed themselves required by the law of the United States upon the subject to demand a tax upon the incomes of foreign consuls in this country. While such a demand may not in strictness be in derogation of public law, or perhaps of any existing treaty between the United States and a foreign country, the expediency of so far modifying the act as to exempt from tax the income of such consuls as are not citizens of the United States, derived from the emoluments of their office or from property not situated in the United States, is submitted to your serious consideration. I make this suggestion upon the ground that a comity which ought to be reciprocated exempts our consuls in all other countries from taxation to the extent thus indicated. The United States, I think, ought not to be exceptionally illiberal to international trade and commerce.

The operations of the Treasury during the last year have been successfully conducted. The enactment by Congress of a national banking law has proved a valuable support of the public credit and the general legislation in relation to loans has fully answered the expectations of its favorers. Some amendments may be required to perfect existing laws, but no change in their principles or general scope is believed to be needed.

Since these measures have been in operation all demands on the Treasury, including the pay of the Army and Navy, have been promptly met and fully satisfied. No considerable body of troops, it is believed, were ever more amply provided and more liberally and punctually paid, and it may be added that by no people were the burdens incident to a great war ever more cheerfully borne.

The receipts during the year from all sources, including loans and balance in the Treasury at its commencement, were $901,125,674.86, and the aggregate disbursements $895,796,630.65, leaving a balance on the 1st of July, 1863, of $5,329,044.21. Of the receipts there were derived from customs $69,059,642.40, from internal revenue $37,640,787.95, from direct tax $1,485,103.61, from lands $167,617.17, from miscellaneous sources $3,046,615.35, and from loans $776,682,361.57, making the aggregate $901,125,674.86. Of the disbursements there were for the civil service $23,253,922.08, for pensions and Indians $4,216,520.79, for interest on public debt $24,729,846.51, for the War Department $599,298,600.83, for the Navy Department $63,211,105.27, for payment of funded and temporary debt $181,086,635.07, making the aggregate $895,796,630.65 and leaving the balance of $5,329,044.21. But the payment of funded and temporary debt, having been made from moneys borrowed during the year, must be regarded as merely nominal payments and the moneys borrowed to make them as merely nominal receipts, and their amount, $181,086,635.07, should therefore be deducted both from receipts and disbursements. This being done there remains as actual receipts $720,039,039.79 and the actual disbursements $714,709,995.58, leaving the balance as already stated.

The actual receipts and disbursements for the first quarter and the estimated receipts and disbursements for the remaining three quarters of the current fiscal year (1864) will be shown in detail by the report of the Secretary of the Treasury, to which I invite your attention. It is sufficient to say here that it is not believed that actual results will exhibit a state of the finances less favorable to the country than the estimates of that officer heretofore submitted, while it is confidently expected that at the close of the year both disbursements and debt will be found very considerably less than has been anticipated.

The report of the Secretary of War is a document of great interest. It consists of--

1. The military operations of the year, detailed in the report of the General in Chief. 2. The organization of colored persons into the war service. 3. The exchange of prisoners, fully set forth in the letter of General Hitchcock. 4. The operations under the act for enrolling and calling out the national forces, detailed in the report of the Provost-Marshal-General. 5. The organization of the invalid corps, and 6. The operation of the several departments of the Quartermaster-General, Commissary- General, Paymaster-General, Chief of Engineers, Chief of Ordnance, and Surgeon-General.

It has appeared impossible to make a valuable summary of this report, except such as would be too extended for this place, and hence I content myself by asking your careful attention to the report itself.

The duties devolving on the naval branch of the service during the year and throughout the whole of this unhappy contest have been discharged with fidelity and eminent success. The extensive blockade has been constantly increasing in efficiency as the Navy has expanded, yet on so long a line it has so far been impossible to entirely suppress illicit trade. From returns received at the Navy Department it appears that more than 1,000 vessels have been captured since the blockade was instituted, and that the value of prizes already sent in for adjudication amounts to over $13,000,000.

The naval force of the United States consists at this time of 588 vessels completed and in the course of completion, and of these 75 are ironclad or armored steamers. The events of the war give an increased interest and importance to the Navy which will probably extend beyond the war itself.

The armored vessels in our Navy completed and in service, or which are under contract and approaching completion, are believed to exceed in number those of any other power; but while these may be relied upon for harbor defense and coast service, others of greater strength and capacity will be necessary for cruising purposes and to maintain our rightful position on the ocean.

The change that has taken place in naval vessels and naval warfare since the introduction of steam as a motive power for ships of war demands either a corresponding change in some of our existing navy-yards or the establishment of new ones for the construction and necessary repair of modern naval vessels. No inconsiderable embarrassment, delay, and public injury have been experienced from the want of such governmental establishments. The necessity of such a navy-yard, so furnished, at some suitable place upon the Atlantic seaboard has on repeated occasions been brought to the attention of Congress by the Navy Department, and is again presented in the report of the Secretary which accompanies this communication. I think it my duty to invite your special attention to this subject, and also to that of establishing a yard and depot for naval purposes upon one of the Western rivers. A naval force has been created on those interior waters, and under many disadvantages, within little more than two years, exceeding in numbers the whole naval force of the country at the commencement of the present Administration. Satisfactory and important as have been the performances of the heroic men of the Navy at this interesting period, they are scarcely more wonderful than the success of our mechanics and artisans in the production of war vessels, which has created a new form of naval power.

Our country has advantages superior to any other nation in our resources of iron and timber, with inexhaustible quantities of fuel in the immediate vicinity of both, and all available and in close proximity to navigable waters. Without the advantage of public works, the resources of the nation have been developed and its power displayed in the construction of a Navy of such magnitude, which has at the very period of its creation rendered signal service to the Union.

The increase of the number of seamen in the public service from 7,500 men in the spring of 1861 to about 34,000 at the present time has been accomplished without special legislation or extraordinary bounties to promote that increase. It has been found, however, that the operation of the draft, with the high bounties paid for army recruits, is beginning to affect injuriously the naval service, and will, if not corrected, be likely to impair its efficiency by detaching seamen from their proper vocation and inducing them to enter the Army. I therefore respectfully suggest that Congress might aid both the army and naval services by a definite provision on this subject which would at the same time be equitable to the communities more especially interested.

I commend to your consideration the suggestions of the Secretary of the Navy in regard to the policy of fostering and training seamen and also the education of officers and engineers for the naval service. The Naval Academy is rendering signal service in preparing midshipmen for the highly responsible duties which in after life they will be required to perform. In order that the country should not be deprived of the proper quota of educated officers, for which legal provision has been made at the naval school, the vacancies caused by the neglect or omission to make nominations from the States in insurrection have been filled by the Secretary of the Navy. The school is now more full and complete than at any former period, and in every respect entitled to the favorable consideration of Congress.

During the past fiscal year the financial condition of the Post-Office Department has been one of increasing prosperity, and I am gratified in being able to state that the actual postal revenue has nearly equaled the entire expenditures, the latter amounting to $11,314,206.84 and the former to $11,163,789.59, leaving a deficiency of but $150,417.25. In 1860, the year immediately preceding the rebellion, the deficiency amounted to $5,656,705.49, the postal receipts of that year being $2,645,722.19 less than those of 1863. The decrease since 1860 in the annual amount of transportation has been only about 25 per cent, but the annual expenditure on account of the same has been reduced 35 per cent. It is manifest, therefore, that the Post-Office Department may become self-sustaining in a few years, even with the restoration of the whole service.

The international conference of postal delegates from the principal countries of Europe and America, which was called at the suggestion of the Postmaster-General, met at Paris on the 11th of May last and concluded its deliberations on the 8th of June. The principles established by the conference as best adapted to facilitate postal intercourse between nations and as the basis of future postal conventions inaugurate a general system of uniform international charges at reduced rates of postage, and can not fail to produce beneficial results.

I refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Interior, which is herewith laid before you, for useful and varied information in relation to the public lands, Indian affairs, patents, pensions, and other matters of public concern pertaining to his Department.

The quantity of land disposed of during the last and the first quarter of the present fiscal years was 3,841,549 acres, of which 161,911 acres were sold for cash, 1,456,514 acres were taken up under the homestead law, and the residue disposed of under laws granting lands for military bounties, for railroad and other purposes. It also appears that the sale of the public lands is largely on the increase.

It has long been a cherished opinion of some of our wisest statesmen that the people of the United States had a higher and more enduring interest in the early settlement and substantial cultivation of the public lands than in the amount of direct revenue to be derived from the sale of them. This opinion has had a controlling influence in shaping legislation upon the subject of our national domain. I may cite as evidence of this the liberal measures adopted in reference to actual settlers; the grant to the States of the overflowed lands within their limits, in order to their being reclaimed and rendered fit for cultivation; the grants to railway companies of alternate sections of land upon the contemplated issues of their roads, which when completed will so largely multiply the facilities for reaching our distant possessions. This policy has received its most signal and beneficent illustration in the recent enactment granting homesteads to actual settlers. Since the 1st day of January last the before-mentioned quantity of 1,456,514 acres of land have been taken up under its provisions. This fact and the amount of sales furnish gratifying evidence of increasing settlement upon the public lands, notwithstanding the great struggle in which the energies of the nation have been engaged, and which has required so large a withdrawal of our citizens from their accustomed pursuits. I cordially concur in the recommendation of the Secretary of the Interior suggesting a modification of the act in favor of those engaged in the military and naval service of the United States. I doubt not that Congress will cheerfully adopt such measures as will, without essentially changing the general features of the system, secure to the greatest practicable extent its benefits to those who have left their homes in the defense of the country in this arduous crisis.

I invite your attention to the views of the Secretary as to the propriety of raising by appropriate legislation a revenue from the mineral lands of the United States.

The measures provided at your last session for the removal of certain Indian tribes have been carried into effect. Sundry treaties have been negotiated, which will in due time be submitted for the constitutional action of the Senate. They contain stipulations for extinguishing the possessory rights of the Indians to large and valuable tracts of lands. It is hoped that the effect of these treaties will result in the establishment of permanent friendly relations with such of these tribes as have been brought into frequent and bloody collision with our outlying settlements and emigrants. Sound policy and our imperative duty to these wards of the Government demand our anxious and constant attention to their material well-being, to their progress in the arts of civilization, and, above all, to that moral training which under the blessing of Divine Providence will confer upon them the elevated and sanctifying influences, the hopes and consolations, of the Christian faith. I suggested in my last annual message the propriety of remodeling our Indian system. Subsequent events have satisfied me of its necessity. The details set forth in the report of the Secretary evince the urgent need for immediate legislative action.

I commend the benevolent institutions established or patronized by the Government in this District to your generous and fostering care. The attention of Congress during the last session was engaged to some extent with a proposition for enlarging the water communication between the Mississippi River and the northeastern seaboard, which proposition, however, failed for the time. Since then, upon a call of the greatest respectability, a convention has been held at Chicago upon the same subject, a summary of whose views is contained in a memorial addressed to the President and Congress, and which I now have the honor to lay before you. That this interest is one which ere long will force its own way I do not entertain a doubt, while it is submitted entirely to your wisdom as to what can be done now. Augmented interest is given to this subject by the actual commencement of work upon the Pacific Railroad, under auspices so favorable to rapid progress and completion. The enlarged navigation becomes a palpable need to the great road.

I transmit the second annual report of the Commissioner of the Department of Agriculture, asking your attention to the developments in that vital interest of the nation. When Congress assembled a year ago, the war had already lasted nearly twenty months, and there had been many conflicts on both land and sea, with varying results; the rebellion had been pressed back into reduced limits; yet the tone of public feeling and opinion, at home and abroad was not satisfactory. With other signs, the popular elections then just past indicated uneasiness among ourselves, while, amid much that was cold and menacing, the kindest words coming from Europe were uttered in accents of pity that we were too blind to surrender a hopeless cause. Our commerce was suffering greatly by a few armed vessels built upon and furnished from foreign shores, and we were threatened with such additions from the same quarter as would sweep our trade from the sea and raise our blockade. We had failed to elicit from European Governments anything hopeful upon this subject. The preliminary emancipation proclamation, issued in September, was running its assigned period to the beginning of the new year. A month later the final proclamation came, including the announcement that colored men of suitable condition would be received into the war service. The policy of emancipation and of employing black soldiers gave to the future a new aspect, about which hope and fear and doubt contended in uncertain conflict. According to our political system, as a matter of civil administration, the General Government had no lawful power to effect emancipation in any State, and for a long time it had been hoped that the rebellion could be suppressed without resorting to it as a military measure. It was all the while deemed possible that the necessity for it might come, and that if it should the crisis of the contest would then be presented. It came, and, as was anticipated, it was followed by dark and doubtful days. Eleven months having now passed, we are permitted to take another review. The rebel borders are pressed still farther back, and by the complete opening of the Mississippi the country dominated by the rebellion is divided into distinct parts, with no practical communication between them. Tennessee and Arkansas have been substantially cleared of insurgent control, and influential citizens in each, owners of slaves and advocates of slavery at the beginning of the rebellion, now declare openly for emancipation in their respective States. Of those States not included in the emancipation proclamation, Maryland and Missouri, neither of which three years ago would tolerate any restraint upon the extension of slavery into new Territories, only dispute now as to the best mode of removing it within their own limits.

Of those who were slaves at the beginning of the rebellion full 100,000 are now in the United States military service, about one-half of which number actually bear arms in the ranks, thus giving the double advantage of taking so much labor from the insurgent cause and supplying the places which otherwise must be filled with so many white men. So far as tested, it is difficult to say they are not as good soldiers as any. No servile insurrection or tendency to violence or cruelty has marked the measures of emancipation and arming the blacks. These measures have been much discussed in foreign countries, and, contemporary with such discussion, the tone of public sentiment there is much improved. At home the same measures have been fully discussed, supported, criticised, and denounced, and the annual elections following are highly encouraging to those whose official duty it is to bear the country through this great trial. Thus we have the new reckoning. The crisis which threatened to divide the friends of the Union is past.

Looking now to the present and future, and with reference to a resumption of the national authority within the States wherein that authority has been suspended, I have thought fit to issue a proclamation, a copy of which is herewith transmitted.* On examination of this proclamation it will appear, as is believed, that nothing will be attempted beyond what is amply justified by the Constitution. True, the form of an oath is given, but no man is coerced to take it. The man is only promised a pardon in case he voluntarily takes the oath. The Constitution authorizes the Executive to grant or withhold the pardon at his own absolute discretion, and this includes the power to grant on terms, as is fully established by judicial and other authorities.

It is also proffered that if in any of the States named a State government shall be in the mode prescribed set up, such government shall be recognized and guaranteed by the United States, and that under it the State shall, on the constitutional conditions, be protected against invasion and domestic violence. The constitutional obligation of the United States to guarantee to every State in the Union a republican form of government and to protect the State in the cases stated is explicit and full. But why tender the benefits of this provision only to a State government set up in this particular way ? This section of the Constitution contemplates a case wherein the element within a State favorable to republican government in the Union may be too feeble for an opposite and hostile element external to or even within the State, and such are precisely the cases with which we are now dealing.

An attempt to guarantee and protect a revived State government, constructed in whole or in preponderating part from the very element against whose hostility and violence it is to be protected, is simply absurd. There must be a test by which to separate the opposing elements, so as to build only from the sound; and that test is a sufficiently liberal one which accepts as sound whoever will make a sworn recantation of his former unsoundness.

But if it be proper to require as a test of admission to the political body an oath of allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and to the Union under it, why also to the laws and proclamations in regard to slavery? Those laws and proclamations were enacted and put forth for the purpose of aiding in the suppression of the rebellion. To give them their fullest effect there had to be a pledge for their maintenance. In my judgment, they have aided and will further aid the cause for which they were intended. To now abandon them would be not only to relinquish a lever of power, but would also be a cruel and an astounding breach of faith. I may add at this point that while I remain in my present position I shall not attempt to retract or modify the emancipation proclamation, nor shall I return to slavery any person who is free by the terms of that proclamation or by any of the acts of Congress. For these and other reasons it is thought best that support of these measures shall be included in the oath, and it is believed the Executive may lawfully claim it in return for pardon and restoration of forfeited rights, which he has clear constitutional power to withhold altogether or grant upon the terms which he shall deem wisest for the public interest. It should be observed also that this part of the oath is subject to the modifying and abrogating power of legislation and supreme judicial decision.

The proposed acquiescence of the National Executive in any reasonable temporary State arrangement for the freed people is made with the view of possibly modifying the confusion and destitution which must at best attend all classes by a total revolution of labor throughout whole States. It is hoped that the already deeply afflicted people in those States may be somewhat more ready to give up the cause of their affliction if to this extent this vital matter be left to themselves, while no power of the National Executive to prevent an abuse is abridged by the proposition.

The suggestion in the proclamation as to maintaining the political framework of the States on what is called reconstruction is made in the hope that it may do good without danger of harm. It will save labor and avoid great confusion.

But why any proclamation now upon this subject? This question is beset with the conflicting views that the step might be delayed too long or be taken too soon. In some States the elements for resumption seem ready for action. but remain inactive apparently for want of a rallying point--a plan of action, Why shall A adopt the plan of B rather than B that of A? And if A and B should agree, how can they know but that the General Government here will reject their plan? By the proclamation a plan is presented which may be accepted by them as a rallying point, and which they are assured in advance will not be rejected here. This may bring them to act sooner than they otherwise would. The objections to a premature presentation of a plan by the National Executive consist in the danger of committals on points which could be more safely left to further developments. Care has been taken to so shape the document as to avoid embarrassments from this source. Saying that on certain terms certain classes will be pardoned with rights restored, it is not said that other classes or other terms will never be in included. Saying specified way, it is said that reconstruction will be accepted if presented in a not said it will never be accepted in any other way.

The movements by State action for emancipation in several of the States not included in the emancipation proclamation are matters of profound gratulation. And while I do not repeat in detail what I have heretofore so earnestly urged upon this subject, my general views and feelings remain unchanged; and I trust that Congress will omit no fair opportunity of aiding these important steps to a great consummation. In the midst of other cares, however important, we must not lose sight of the fact that the war power is still our main reliance. To that power alone can we look yet for a time to give confidence to the people in the contested regions that the insurgent power will not again overrun them. Until that confidence shall be established little can be done anywhere for what is called reconstruction. Hence our chiefest care must still be directed to the Army and Navy, who have thus far borne their harder part so nobly and well; and it may be esteemed fortunate that in giving the greatest efficiency to these indispensable arms we do also honorably recognize the gallant men, from commander to sentinel, who compose them, and to whom more than to others the world must stand indebted for the home of freedom disenthralled, regenerated, enlarged, and perpetuated.

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

Again the blessings of health and abundant harvests claim our profoundest gratitude to Almighty God.

The condition of our foreign affairs is reasonably satisfactory.

Mexico continues to be a theater of civil war. While our political relations with that country have undergone no change, we have at the same time strictly maintained neutrality between the belligerents.

At the request of the States of Costa Rica and Nicaragua, a competent engineer has been authorized to make a survey of the river San Juan and the port of San Juan. It is a source of much satisfaction that the difficulties which for a moment excited some political apprehensions and caused a closing of the interoceanic transit route have been amicably adjusted, and that there is a good prospect that the route will soon be reopened with an increase of capacity and adaptation. We could not exaggerate either the commercial or the political importance of that great improvement.

It would be doing injustice to an important South American State not to acknowledge the directness, frankness, and cordiality with which the United States of Colombia have entered into intimate relations with this Government. A claims convention has been constituted to complete the unfinished work of the one which closed its session in 1861.

The new liberal constitution of Venezuela having gone into effect with the universal acquiescence of the people, the Government under it has been recognized and diplomatic intercourse with it has opened in a cordial and friendly spirit. The long-deferred Aves Island claim has been satisfactorily paid and discharged.

Mutual payments have been made of the claims awarded by the late joint commission for the settlement of claims between the United States and Peru. An earnest and cordial friendship continues to exist between the two countries, and such efforts as were in my power have been used to remove misunderstanding and avert a threatened war between Peru and Spain.

Our relations are of the most friendly nature with Chile, the Argentine Republic, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Paraguay, San Salvador, and Hayti. During the past year no differences of any kind have arisen with any of those Republics, and, on the other hand, their sympathies with the United States are constantly expressed with cordiality and earnestness.

The claim arising from the seizure of the cargo of the brig Macedonian in 1821 has been paid in full by the Government of Chile. Civil war continues in the Spanish part of San Domingo, apparently without prospect of an early close.

Official correspondence has been freely opened with Liberia, and it gives us a pleasing view of social and political progress in that Republic. It may be expected to derive new vigor from American influence, improved by the rapid disappearance of slavery in the United States.

I solicit your authority to furnish to the Republic a gunboat at moderate cost, to be reimbursed to the United States by installments. Such a vessel is needed for the safety of that State against the native African races, and in Liberian hands it would be more effective in arresting the African slave trade than a squadron in our own hands. The possession of the least organized naval force would stimulate a generous ambition in the Republic, and the confidence which we should manifest by furnishing it would win forbearance and favor toward the colony from all civilized nations.

The proposed overland telegraph between America and Europe, by the way of Behrings Straits and Asiatic Russia, which was sanctioned by Congress at the last session, has been undertaken, under very favorable circumstances, by an association of American citizens, with the cordial good will and support as well of this Government as of those of Great Britain and Russia. Assurances have been received from most of the South American States of their high appreciation of the enterprise and their readiness to cooperate in constructing lines tributary to that world-encircling communication. I learn with much satisfaction that the noble design of a telegraphic communication between the eastern coast of America and Great Britain has been renewed, with full expectation of its early accomplishment.

Thus it is hoped that with the return of domestic peace the country will be able to resume with energy and advantage its former high career of commerce and civilization.

Our very popular and estimable representative in Egypt died in April last. An unpleasant altercation which arose between the temporary incumbent of the office and the Government of the Pasha resulted in a suspension of intercourse. The evil was promptly corrected on the arrival of the successor in the consulate, and our relations with Egypt, as well as our relations with the Barbary Powers, are entirely satisfactory.

The rebellion which has so long been flagrant in China has at last been suppressed, with the cooperating good offices of this Government and of the other Western commercial States. The judicial consular establishment there has become very difficult and onerous, and it will need legislative revision to adapt it to the extension of our commerce and to the more intimate intercourse which has been instituted with the Government and people of that vast Empire. China seems to be accepting with hearty good will the conventional laws which regulate commercial and social intercourse among the Western nations.

Owing to the peculiar situation of Japan and the anomalous form of its Government, the action of that Empire in performing treaty stipulations is inconstant and capricious. Nevertheless, good progress has been effected by the Western powers, moving with enlightened concert. Our own pecuniary claims have been allowed or put in course of settlement, and the inland sea has been reopened to commerce. There is reason also to believe that these proceedings have increased rather than diminished the friendship of Japan toward the United States.

The ports of Norfolk, Fernandina, and Pensacola have been opened by proclamation. It is hoped that foreign merchants will now consider whether it is not safer and more profitable to themselves, as well as just to the United States, to resort to these and other open ports than it is to pursue, through many hazards and at vast cost, a contraband trade with other ports which are closed, if not by actual military occupation, at least by a lawful and effective blockade.

For myself, I have no doubt of the power and duty of the Executive, under the law of nations, to exclude enemies of the human race from an asylum in the United States. If Congress should think that proceedings in such cases lack the authority of law, or ought to be further regulated by it, I recommend that provision be made for effectually preventing foreign slave traders from acquiring domicile and facilities for their criminal occupation in our country.

It is possible that if it were new and open question the maritime powers, with the lights they now enjoy, would not concede the privileges of a naval belligerent to the insurgents of the United States, destitute, as they are, and always have been, equally of ships of war and of ports and harbors. Disloyal emissaries have been neither less assiduous nor more successful during the last year than they were before that time in their efforts under favor of that privilege, to embroil our country in foreign wars. The desire and determination of the governments of the maritime states to defeat that design are believed to be as sincere as and can not be more earnest than our own. Nevertheless, unforeseen political difficulties have arisen, especially in Brazilian and British ports and on the northern boundary of the United States, which have required, and are likely to continue to require, the practice of constant vigilance and a just and conciliatory spirit on the part of the United States, as well as of the nations concerned and their governments.

Commissioners have been appointed under the treaty with Great Britain on the adjustment of the claims of the Hudsons Bay and Pugets Sound Agricultural Companies, in Oregon, and are now proceeding to the execution of the trust assigned to them.

In view of the insecurity of life and property in the region adjacent to the Canadian border, by reason of recent assaults and depredations committed by inimical and desperate persons who are harbored there, it has been thought proper to give notice that after the expiration of six months, the period conditionally stipulated in the existing arrangement with Great Britain, the United States must hold themselves at liberty to increase their naval armament upon the Lakes if they shall find that proceeding necessary. The condition of the border will necessarily come into consideration in connection with the question of continuing or modifying the rights of transit from Canada through the United States, as well as the regulation of imposts, which were temporarily established by the reciprocity treaty of the 5th June, 1854.

I desire, however, to be understood while making this statement that the colonial authorities of Canada are not deemed to be intentionally unjust or unfriendly toward the United States, but, on the contrary, there is every reason to expect that, with the approval of the Imperial Government, they will take the necessary measures to prevent new incursions across the border.

The act passed at the last session for the encouragement of immigration has so far as was possible been put into operation. It seems to need amendment which will enable the officers of the Government to prevent the practice of frauds against the immigrants while on their way and on their arrival in the ports, so as to secure them here a free choice of avocations and places of settlement. A liberal disposition toward this great national policy is manifested by most of the European States, and ought to be reciprocated on our part by giving the immigrants effective national protection. I regard our immigrants as one of the principal replenishing streams which are appointed by Providence to repair the ravages of internal war and its wastes of national strength and health. All that is necessary is to secure the flow of that stream in its present fullness, and to that end the Government must in every way make it manifest that it neither needs nor designs to impose involuntary military service upon those who come from other lands to cast their lot in our country.

The financial affairs of the Government have been successfully administered during the last year. The legislation of the last session of Congress has beneficially affected the revenues, although sufficient time has not yet elapsed to experience the full effect of several of the provisions of the acts of Congress imposing increased taxation.

The receipts during the year from all sources, upon the basis of warrants signed by the Secretary of the Treasury, including loans and the balance in the Treasury on the 1st day of July, 1863, were $1,394,796,007.62, and the aggregate disbursements, upon the same basis, were $1,298,056,101.89, leaving a balance in the Treasury, as shown by warrants, of $96,739,905.73.

Deduct from these amounts the amount of the principal of the public debt redeemed and the amount of issues in substitution therefor, and the actual cash operations of the Treasury were: Receipts, $884,076,646.57; disbursements, $865,234,087.86; which leaves a cash balance in the Treasury of $18,842,558.71.

Of the receipts there were derived from customs $102,316,152.99, from lands $588,333.29. from direct taxes $475,648.96, from internal revenue $109,741,134.10, from miscellaneous sources $47,511,448.10, and from loans applied to actual expenditures, including former balance, $623,443,929.13.

There were disbursed for the civil service $27,505,599.46, for pensions and Indians $7,517,930.97, for the War Department $690,791,842.97, for the Navy Department $85,733,292.77, for interest on the public debt $53,685,421.69, making an aggregate of $865,234,087.86 and leaving a balance in the Treasury of $18,842,558.71, as before stated.

For the actual receipts and disbursements for the first quarter and the estimated receipts and disbursements for the three remaining quarters of the current fiscal year, and the general operations of the Treasury in detail, I refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Treasury. I concur with him in the opinion that the proportion of moneys required to meet the expenses consequent upon the war derived from taxation should be still further increased; and I earnestly invite your attention to this subject, to the end that there may be such additional legislation as shall be required to meet the just expectations of the Secretary.

The public debt on the 1st day of July last, as appears by the books of the Treasury, amounted to $1,740,690,489.49. Probably, should the war continue for another year, that amount may be increased by not far from five hundred millions. Held, as it is, for the most part by our own people, it has become a substantial branch of national, though private, property. For obvious reasons the more nearly this property can be distributed among all the people the better. To favor such general distribution, greater inducements to become owners might, perhaps, with good effect and without injury be presented to persons of limited means. With this view I suggest whether it might not be both competent and expedient for Congress to provide that a limited amount of some future issue of public securities might be held by any bona fide purchaser exempt from taxation and from seizure for debt, under such restrictions and limitations as might be necessary to guard against abuse of so important a privilege. This would enable every prudent person to set aside a small annuity against a possible day of want.

Privileges like these would render the possession of such securities to the amount limited most desirable to every person of small means who might be able to save enough for the purpose. The great advantage of citizens being creditors as well as debtors with relation to the public debt is obvious. Men readily perceive that they can not be much oppressed by a debt which they owe to themselves.

The public debt on the 1st day of July last, although somewhat exceeding the estimate of the Secretary of the Treasury made to Congress at the commencement of the last session, falls short of the estimate of that officer made in the preceding December as to its probable amount at the beginning of this year by the sum of $3,995,097.31. This fact exhibits a satisfactory condition and conduct of the operations of the Treasury.

The national banking system is proving to be acceptable to capitalists and to the people. On the 25th day of November 584 national banks had been organized, a considerable number of which were conversions from State banks. Changes from State systems to the national system are rapidly taking place, and it is hoped that very soon there will be in the United States no banks of issue not authorized by Congress and no bank-note circulation not secured by the Government. That the Government and the people will derive great benefit from this change in the banking systems of the country can hardly be questioned. The national system will create a reliable and permanent influence in support of the national credit and protect the people against losses in the use of paper money. Whether or not any further legislation is advisable for the suppression of State-bank issues it will be for Congress to determine. It seems quite clear that the Treasury can not be satisfactorily conducted unless the Government can exercise a restraining power over the bank-note circulation of the country. The report of the Secretary of War and the accompanying documents will detail the campaigns of the armies in the field since the date of the last annual message, and also the operations of the several administrative bureaus of the War Department during the last year. It will also specify the measures deemed essential for the national defense and to keep up and supply the requisite military force.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy presents a comprehensive and satisfactory exhibit of the affairs of that Department and of the naval service. It is a subject of congratulation and laudable pride to our countrymen that a Navy of such vast proportions has been organized in so brief a period and conducted with so much efficiency and success.

The general exhibit of the Navy, including vessels under construction on the 1st of December, 1864, shows a total of 671 vessels, carrying 4,610 guns, and of 510,396 tons, being an actual increase during the year, over and above all losses by shipwreck or in battle, of 83 vessels, 167 guns, and 42,427 tons.

The total number of men at this time in the naval service, including officers, is about 51,000.

There have been captured by the Navy during the year 324 vessels, and the whole number of naval captures since hostilities commenced is 1,379, of which 267 are steamers.

The gross proceeds arising from the sale of condemned prize property thus far reported amount to $14,396,250.51. A large amount of such proceeds is still under adjudication and yet to be reported.

The total expenditure of the Navy Department of every description, including the cost of the immense squadrons that have been called into existence from the 4th of March, 1861, to the 1st of November, 1864, is $238,647,262.35.

Your favorable consideration is invited to the various recommendations of the Secretary of the Navy, especially in regard to a navy-yard and suitable establishment for the construction and repair of iron vessels and the machinery and armature for our ships, to which reference was made in my last annual message.

Your attention is also invited to the views expressed in the report in relation to the legislation of Congress at its last session in respect to prize on our inland waters.

I cordially concur in the recommendation of the Secretary as to the propriety of creating the new rank of vice-admiral in our naval service. Your attention is invited to the report of the Postmaster-General for a detailed account of the operations and financial condition of the Post-Office Department.

The postal revenues for the year ending June 30, 1864, amounted to $12,438,253.78 and the expenditures to $12,644,786.20, the excess of expenditures over receipts being $206,652.42.

The views presented by the Postmaster-General on the subject of special grants by the Government in aid of the establishment of new lines of ocean mail steamships and the policy he recommends for the development of increased commercial intercourse with adjacent and neighboring countries should receive the careful consideration of Congress.

It is of noteworthy interest that the steady expansion of population, improvement, and governmental institutions over the new and unoccupied portions of our country have scarcely been checked, much less impeded or destroyed, by our great civil war, which at first glance would seem to have absorbed almost the entire energies of the nation.

The organization and admission of the State of Nevada has been completed in conformity with law, and thus our excellent system is firmly established in the mountains, which once seemed a barren and uninhabitable waste between the Atlantic States and those which have grown up on the coast of the Pacific Ocean.

The Territories of the Union are generally in a condition of prosperity and rapid growth. Idaho and Montana, by reason of their great distance and the interruption of communication with them by Indian hostilities, have been only partially organized; but it is understood that these difficulties are about to disappear, which will permit their governments, like those of the others, to go into speedy and full operation. As intimately connected with and promotive of this material growth of the nation, I ask the attention of Congress to the valuable information and important recommendations relating to the public lands, Indian affairs, the Pacific Railroad, and mineral discoveries contained in the report of the Secretary of the Interior which is herewith transmitted, and which report also embraces the subjects of patents, pensions, and other topics of public interest pertaining to his Department.

The quantity of public land disposed of during the five quarters ending on the 30th of September last was 4,221,342 acres, of which 1,538,614 acres were entered under the homestead law. The remainder was located with military land warrants, agricultural scrip certified to States for railroads, and sold for cash. The cash received from sales and location fees was $1,019,446.

The income from sales during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1864, was $678,007.21, against $136,077.95 received during the preceding year. The aggregate number of acres surveyed during the year has been equal to the quantity disposed of, and there is open to settlement about 133,000,000 acres of surveyed land.

The great enterprise of connecting the Atlantic with the Pacific States by railways and telegraph lines has been entered upon with a vigor that gives assurance of success, notwithstanding the embarrassments arising from the prevailing high prices of materials and labor. The route of the main line of the road has been definitely located for 100 miles westward from the initial point at Omaha City, Nebr., and a preliminary location of the Pacific Railroad of California has been made from Sacramento eastward to the great bend of the Truckee River in Nevada. Numerous discoveries of gold, silver, and cinnabar mines have been added to the many heretofore known, and the country occupied by the Sierra Nevada and Rocky mountains and the subordinate ranges now teems with enterprising labor, which is richly remunerative. It is believed that the product of the mines of precious metals in that region has during the year reached, if not exceeded, one hundred millions in value.

It was recommended in my last annual message that our Indian system be remodeled. Congress at its last session, acting upon the recommendation, did provide for reorganizing the system in California, and it is believed that under the present organization the management of the Indians there will be attended with reasonable success. Much yet remains to be done to provide for the proper government of the Indians in other parts of the country, to render it secure for the advancing set-tier, and to provide for the welfare of the Indian. The Secretary reiterates his recommendations, and to them the attention of Congress is invited.

The liberal provisions made by Congress for paying pensions to invalid soldiers and sailors of the Republic and to the widows, orphans, and dependent mothers of those who have fallen in battle or died of disease contracted or of wounds received in the service of their country have been diligently administered. There have been added to the pension rolls during the year ending the 30th day of June last the names of 16,770 invalid soldiers and of 271 disabled seamen, making the present number of army invalid pensioners 22,767 and of navy invalid pensioners 712.

Of widows, orphans, and mothers 22,198 have been placed on the army pension rolls and 248 on the navy rolls. The present number of army pensioners of this class is 25,433 and of navy pensioners 793. At the beginning of the year the number of Revolutionary pensioners was 1,430. Only 12 of them were soldiers, of whom 7 have since died. The remainder are those who under the law receive pensions because of relationship to Revolutionary soldiers. During the year ending the 30th of June, 1864, $4,504,616.92 have been paid to pensioners of all classes.

I cheerfully commend to your continued patronage the benevolent institutions of the District of Columbia which have hitherto been established or fostered by Congress, and respectfully refer for information concerning them and in relation to the Washington Aqueduct, the Capitol, and other matters of local interest to the report of the Secretary.

The Agricultural Department, under the supervision of its present energetic and faithful head, is rapidly commending itself to the great and vital interest it was created to advance It is peculiarly the people's Department, in which they feel more directly concerned than in any other. I commend it to the continued attention and fostering care of Congress.

The war continues. Since the last annual message all the important lines and positions then occupied by our forces have been maintained and our arms have steadily advanced, thus liberating the regions left in rear, so that Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, and parts of other States have again produced reasonably fair crops.

The most remarkable feature in the military operations of the year is General Sherman's attempted march of 300 miles directly through the insurgent region. It tends to show a great increase of our relative strength that our General in Chief should feel able to confront and hold in check every active force of the enemy, and yet to detach a well-appointed large army to move on such an expedition. The result not yet being known, conjecture in regard to it is not here indulged.

Important movements have also occurred during the year to the effect of molding society for durability in the Union. Although short of complete success, it is much in the fight direction that 12,000 citizens in each of the States of Arkansas and Louisiana have organized loyal State governments, with free constitutions, and are earnestly struggling to maintain and administer them. The movements in the same direction, more extensive though less definite, in Missouri, Kentucky, and Tennessee should not be overlooked. But Maryland presents the example of complete success. Maryland is secure to liberty and union for all the future. The genius of rebellion will no more claim Maryland. Like another foul spirit being driven out, it may seek to tear her, but it will woo her no-more.

At the last session of Congress a proposed amendment of the Constitution abolishing slavery throughout the United States passed the Senate, but failed for lack of the requisite two-thirds vote in the House of Representatives. Although the present is the same Congress and nearly the same members, and without questioning the wisdom or patriotism of those who stood in opposition, I venture to recommend the reconsideration and passage of the measure at the present session. Of course the abstract question is not changed; but in intervening election shows almost certainly that the next Congress will pass the measure if this does not. Hence there is only a question of time as to when the proposed amendment will go to the States for their action. And as it is to so go at all events, may we not agree that the sooner the better? It is not claimed that the election has imposed a duty on members to change their views or their votes any further than, as an additional element to be considered, their judgment may be affected by it. It is the voice of the people now for the first time heard upon the question. In a great national crisis like ours unanimity of action among those seeking a common end is very desirable—almost indispensable. And yet no approach to such unanimity is attainable unless some deference shall be paid to the will of the majority simply because it is the will of the majority. In this case the common end is the maintenance of the Union, and among the means to secure that end such will, through the election, is most dearly declared in favor of such constitutional amendment.

The most reliable indication of public purpose in this country is derived through our popular elections. Judging by the recent canvass and its result, the purpose of the people within the loyal States to maintain the integrity of the Union was never more firm nor more nearly unanimous than now. The extraordinary calmness and good order with which the millions of voters met and mingled at the polls give strong assurance of this. Not only all those who supported the Union ticket, so called, but a great majority of the opposing party also may be fairly claimed to entertain and to be actuated by the same purpose. It is an unanswerable argument to this effect that no candidate for any officce whatever, high or low, has ventured to seek votes on the avowal that he was for giving up the Union. There have been much impugning of motives and much heated controversy as to the proper means and best mode of advancing the Union cause, but on the distinct issue of Union or no Union the politicians have shown their instinctive knowledge that there is no diversity among the people. In affording the people the fair opportunity of showing one to another and to the world this firmess and unanimity of purpose, the election has been of vast value to the national cause.

The election has exhibited another tact not less valuable to be known—the fact that we do not approach exhaustion in the most important branch of national resources, that of living men. While it is melancholy to reflect that the war has filled so many graves and carried mourning to so many hearts, it is some relief to know that, compared with the surviving, the fallen have been so few. While corps and divisions and brigades and regiments have formed and fought and dwindled and gone out of existence, a great majority of the men who composed them are still living. The same is true of the naval service. The election returns prove this. So many voters could not else be found. The States regularly holding elections, both now and four years ago, to wit, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, West Virginia, and Wisconsin, east 3,982,011 votes now, against 3,870,222 cast then, showing an aggregate now of 3,982,011. To this is to be added 33,762 cast now in the new States of Kansas and Nevada, which States did not vote in 1860, thus swelling the aggregate to 4,015,773 and the net increase during the three years and a half of war to 145,551. A table is appended showing particulars. To this again should be added the number of all soldiers in the field from Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Delaware, Indiana, Illinois, and California, who by the laws of those States could not vote away from their homes, and which number can not be less than 90,000. Nor yet is this all. The number in organized Territories is triple now what it was four years ago, while thousands, white and black, join us as the national arms press back the insurgent lines. So much is shown, affirmatively and negatively, by the election. It is not material to inquire how the increase has been produced or to show that it would have been greater but for the war, which is probably true. The important fact remains demonstrated that we have more men now than we had when the war began; that we are not exhausted nor in process of exhaustion; that we are gaining strength and may if need be maintain the contest indefinitely. This as to men. Material resources are now more complete and abundant than ever.

The national resources, then, are unexhausted, and, as we believe, inexhaustible. The public purpose to reestablish and maintain the national authority is unchanged, and, as we believe, unchangeable. The manner of continuing the effort remains to choose. On careful consideration of all the evidence accessible it seems to me that no attempt at negotiation with the insurgent leader could result in any good. He would accept nothing short of severance of the Union, precisely what we will not and can not give. His declarations to this effect are explicit and oft repeated. He does not attempt to deceive us. He affords us no excuse to deceive ourselves. He can not voluntarily reaccept the Union; we can not voluntarily yield it. Between him and us the issue is distinct, simple, and inflexible. It is an issue which can only be tried by war and decided by victory. If we yield, we are beaten; if the Southern people fail him, he is beaten. Either way it would be the victory and defeat following war. What is true, however, of him who heads the insurgent cause is not necessarily true of those who follow. Although he can not reaccept the Union, they can. Some of them, we know, already desire peace and reunion. The number of such may increase. They can at any moment have peace simply by laying down their arms and submitting to the national authority under the Constitution. Alter so much the Government could not, if it would, maintain war against them. The loyal people would not sustain or allow it. If questions should remain, we would adjust them by the peaceful means of legislation, conference, courts, and votes, operating only in constitutional and lawful channels. Some certain, and other possible, questions are and would be beyond the Executive power to adjust; as, for instance, the admission of members into Congress and whatever might require the appropriation of money. The Executive power itself would be greatly diminished by the cessation of actual war. Pardons and remissions of forfeitures, however, would still be within Executive control. In what spirit and temper this control would be exercised can be fairly judged of by the past.

A year ago general pardon and amnesty, upon specified terms, were offered to all except certain designated classes, and it was at the same time made known that the excepted classes were still within contemplation of special clemency. During the year many availed themselves of the general provision, and many more would, only that the signs of bad faith in some led to such precautionary measures as rendered the practical process less easy and certain. During the same time also special pardons have been granted to individuals of the excepted classes, and no voluntary application has been denied. Thus practically the door has been for a full year open to all except such as were not in condition to make free choice; that is, such as were in custody or under constraint. It is still so open to all. But the time may come, probably will come, when public duty shall demand that it be closed and that in lieu more rigorous measures than heretofore shall be adopted. In presenting the abandonment of armed resistance to the national authority on the part of the insurgents as the only indispensable condition to ending the war on the part of the Government, I retract nothing heretofore said as to slavery. I repeat the declaration made a year a ago, that "while I remain in my present position I shall not attempt to retract or modify the emancipation proclamation, nor shall I return to slavery any person who is free by the terms of that proclamation or by any of the acts of Congress." If the people should, by whatever mode or means, make it an Executive duty to reenslave such persons, another, and not I, must be their instrument to perform it. In stating a single condition of peace I mean simply to say that the war will cease on the part of the Government whenever it shall have ceased on the part of those who began it.

Fellow-Countrymen:

At this second appearing to take the oath of the Presidential office there is less occasion for an extended address than there was at the first. Then a statement somewhat in detail of a course to be pursued seemed fitting and proper. Now, at the expiration of four years, during which public declarations have been constantly called forth on every point and phase of the great contest which still absorbs the attention and engrosses the energies of the nation, little that is new could be presented. The progress of our arms, upon which all else chiefly depends, is as well known to the public as to myself, and it is, I trust, reasonably satisfactory and encouraging to all. With high hope for the future, no prediction in regard to it is ventured.

On the occasion corresponding to this four years ago all thoughts were anxiously directed to an impending civil war. All dreaded it, all sought to avert it. While the inaugural address was being delivered from this place, devoted altogether to saving the Union without war, insurgent agents were in the city seeking to destroy it without war-seeking to dissolve the Union and divide effects by negotiation. Both parties deprecated war, but one of them would make war rather than let the nation survive, and the other would accept war rather than let it perish, and the war came.

One-eighth of the whole population were colored slaves, not distributed generally over the Union. but localized in the southern part of it. These slaves constituted a peculiar and powerful interest. All knew that this interest was somehow the cause of the war. To strengthen, perpetuate, and extend this interest was the object for which the insurgents would rend the Union even by war, while the Government claimed no right to do more than to restrict the territorial enlargement of it. Neither party expected for the war the magnitude or the duration which it has already attained. Neither anticipated that the cause of the conflict might cease with or even before the conflict itself should cease. Each looked for an easier triumph, and a result less fundamental and astounding. Both read the same Bible and pray to the same God, and each invokes His aid against the other. It may seem strange that any men should dare to ask a just God's assistance in wringing their bread from the sweat of other men's faces, but let us judge not, that we be not judged. The prayers of both could not be answered. That of neither has been answered fully. The Almighty has His own purposes. "Woe unto the world because of offenses; for it must needs be that offenses come, but woe to that man by whom the offense cometh." If we shall suppose that American slavery is one of those offenses which, in the providence of God, must needs come, but which, having continued through His appointed time, He now wills to remove, and that He gives to both North and South this terrible war as the woe due to those by whom the offense came, shall we discern therein any departure from those divine attributes which the believers in a living God always ascribe to Him? Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away. Yet, if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondsman's two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said three thousand years ago, so still it must be said "the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether."

With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the fight as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan, to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations.

Federalist No. 1 - General Introduction
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, October 27th, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

AFTER an unequivocal experience of the inefficacy of the subsisting federal government, you
are called upon to deliberate on a new Constitution for the United States of America. The subject
speaks its own importance; comprehending in its consequences nothing less than the existence of
the UNION, the safety and welfare of the parts of which it is composed, the fate of an empire in
many respects the most interesting in the world. It has been frequently remarked that it seems to
have been reserved to the people of this country, by their conduct and example, to decide the
important question, whether societies of men are really capable or not of establishing good
government from reflection and choice, or whether they are forever destined to depend for their
political constitutions on accident and force. If there be any truth in the remark, the crisis at
which we are arrived may with propriety be regarded as the era in which that decision is to be
made; and a wrong election of the part we shall act may, in this view, deserve to be considered as
the general misfortune of mankind.

This idea will add the inducements of philanthropy to those of patriotism, to heighten the
solicitude which all considerate and good men must feel for the event. Happy will it be if our
choice should be directed by a judicious estimate of our true interests, unperplexed and unbiased
by considerations not connected with the public good. But this is a thing more ardently to be
wished than seriously to be expected. The plan offered to our deliberations affects too many
particular interests, innovates upon too many local institutions, not to involve in its discussion a
variety of objects foreign to its merits, and of views, passions and prejudices little favorable to
the discovery of truth.

Among the most formidable of the obstacles which the new Constitution will have to encounter
may readily be distinguished the obvious interest of a certain class of men in every State to resist
all changes which may hazard a diminution of the power, emolument, and consequence of the
offices they hold under the State establishments; and the perverted ambition of another class of
men, who will either hope to aggrandize themselves by the confusions of their country, or will
flatter themselves with fairer prospects of elevation from the subdivision of the empire into
several partial confederacies than from its union under one government.

It is not, however, my design to dwell upon observations of this nature. I am well aware that it
would be disingenuous to resolve indiscriminately the opposition of any set of men (merely
because their situations might subject them to suspicion) into interested or ambitious views.
Candor will oblige us to admit that even such men may be actuated by upright intentions; and it
cannot be doubted that much of the opposition which has made its appearance, or may hereafter
make its appearance, will spring from sources, blameless at least, if not respectable–the honest


                                                                   18
 
                               


errors of minds led astray by preconceived jealousies and fears. So numerous indeed and so
powerful are the causes which serve to give a false bias to the judgment, that we, upon many
occasions, see wise and good men on the wrong as well as on the right side of questions of the
first magnitude to society. This circumstance, if duly attended to, would furnish a lesson of
moderation to those who are ever so much persuaded of their being in the right in any
controversy. And a further reason for caution, in this respect, might be drawn from the reflection
that we are not always sure that those who advocate the truth are influenced by purer principles
than their antagonists. Ambition, avarice, personal animosity, party opposition, and many other
motives not more laudable than these, are apt to operate as well upon those who support as those
who oppose the right side of a question. Were there not even these inducements to moderation,
nothing could be more ill-judged than that intolerant spirit which has, at all times, characterized
political parties. For in politics, as in religion, it is equally absurd to aim at making proselytes by
fire and sword. Heresies in either can rarely be cured by persecution.

And yet, however just these sentiments will be allowed to be, we have already sufficient
indications that it will happen in this as in all former cases of great national discussion. A torrent
of angry and malignant passions will be let loose. To judge from the conduct of the opposite
parties, we shall be led to conclude that they will mutually hope to evince the justness of their
opinions, and to increase the number of their converts by the loudness of their declamations and
the bitterness of their invectives. An enlightened zeal for the energy and efficiency of
government will be stigmatized as the offspring of a temper fond of despotic power and hostile
to the principles of liberty. An over-scrupulous jealousy of danger to the rights of the people,
which is more commonly the fault of the head than of the heart, will be represented as mere
pretense and artifice, the stale bait for popularity at the expense of the public good. It will be
forgotten, on the one hand, that jealousy is the usual concomitant of love, and that the noble
enthusiasm of liberty is apt to be infected with a spirit of narrow and illiberal distrust. On the
other hand, it will be equally forgotten that the vigor of government is essential to the security of
liberty; that, in the contemplation of a sound and well-informed judgment, their interest can
never be separated; and that a dangerous ambition more often lurks behind the specious mask of
zeal for the rights of the people than under the forbidden appearance of zeal for the firmness and
efficiency of government. History will teach us that the former has been found a much more
certain road to the introduction of despotism than the latter, and that of those men who have
overturned the liberties of republics, the greatest number have begun their career by paying an
obsequious court to the people; commencing demagogues, and ending tyrants.

In the course of the preceding observations, I have had an eye, my fellow-citizens, to putting you
upon your guard against all attempts, from whatever quarter, to influence your decision in a
matter of the utmost moment to your welfare, by any impressions other than those which may
result from the evidence of truth. You will, no doubt, at the same time, have collected from the
general scope of them, that they proceed from a source not unfriendly to the new Constitution.
Yes, my countrymen, I own to you that, after having given it an attentive consideration, I am
clearly of opinion it is your interest to adopt it. I am convinced that this is the safest course for
your liberty, your dignity, and your happiness. I affect not reserves which I do not feel. I will not



                                                                     19
 
                               


amuse you with an appearance of deliberation when I have decided. I frankly acknowledge to
you my convictions, and I will freely lay before you the reasons on which they are founded. The
consciousness of good intentions disdains ambiguity. I shall not, however, multiply professions
on this head. My motives must remain in the depository of my own breast. My arguments will be
open to all, and may be judged of by all. They shall at least be offered in a spirit which will not
disgrace the cause of truth.

I propose, in a series of papers, to discuss the following interesting particulars: — The utility of
the UNION to your political prosperity — The insufficiency of the present Confederation to
preserve that Union — The necessity of a government at least equally energetic with the one
proposed, to the attainment of this object — The conformity of the proposed Constitution to the
true principles of republican government — Its analogy to your own state constitution — and
lastly, The additional security which its adoption will afford to the preservation of that species of
government, to liberty, and to property.

In the progress of this discussion I shall endeavor to give a satisfactory answer to all the
objections which shall have made their appearance, that may seem to have any claim to your
attention.

It may perhaps be thought superfluous to offer arguments to prove the utility of the UNION, a
point, no doubt, deeply engraved on the hearts of the great body of the people in every State, and
one, which it may be imagined, has no adversaries. But the fact is, that we already hear it
whispered in the private circles of those who oppose the new Constitution, that the thirteen States
are of too great extent for any general system, and that we must of necessity resort to separate
confederacies of distinct portions of the whole.1 This doctrine will, in all probability, be
gradually propagated, till it has votaries enough to countenance an open avowal of it. For nothing
can be more evident, to those who are able to take an enlarged view of the subject, than the
alternative of an adoption of the new Constitution or a dismemberment of the Union. It will
therefore be of use to begin by examining the advantages of that Union, the certain evils, and the
probable dangers, to which every State will be exposed from its dissolution. This shall
accordingly constitute the subject of my next address.




                                                                   20
 
                              


Federalist No. 2 - Concerning Dangers from Foreign Force and
Influence
Written by John Jay
Independent Journal, Wednesday, October 31, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

WHEN the people of America reflect that they are now called upon to decide a question, which,
in its consequences, must prove one of the most important that ever engaged their attention, the
propriety of their taking a very comprehensive, as well as a very serious, view of it, will be
evident.

Nothing is more certain than the indispensable necessity of government, and it is equally
undeniable, that whenever and however it is instituted, the people must cede to it some of their
natural rights in order to vest it with requisite powers. It is well worthy of consideration
therefore, whether it would conduce more to the interest of the people of America that they
should, to all general purposes, be one nation, under one federal government, or that they should
divide themselves into separate confederacies, and give to the head of each the same kind of
powers which they are advised to place in one national government.

It has until lately been a received and uncontradicted opinion that the prosperity of the people of
America depended on their continuing firmly united, and the wishes, prayers, and efforts of our
best and wisest citizens have been constantly directed to that object. But politicians now appear,
who insist that this opinion is erroneous, and that instead of looking for safety and happiness in
union, we ought to seek it in a division of the States into distinct confederacies or sovereignties.
However extraordinary this new doctrine may appear, it nevertheless has its advocates; and
certain characters who were much opposed to it formerly, are at present of the number. Whatever
may be the arguments or inducements which have wrought this change in the sentiments and
declarations of these gentlemen, it certainly would not be wise in the people at large to adopt
these new political tenets without being fully convinced that they are founded in truth and sound
policy.

It has often given me pleasure to observe that independent America was not composed of
detached and distant territories, but that one connected, fertile, widespreading country was the
portion of our western sons of liberty. Providence has in a particular manner blessed it with a
variety of soils and productions, and watered it with innumerable streams, for the delight and
accommodation of its inhabitants. A succession of navigable waters forms a kind of chain round
its borders, as if to bind it together; while the most noble rivers in the world, running at
convenient distances, present them with highways for the easy communication of friendly aids,
and the mutual transportation and exchange of their various commodities.




                                                                  21
 
                               


With equal pleasure I have as often taken notice that Providence has been pleased to give this
one connected country to one united people -- a people descended from the same ancestors,
speaking the same language, professing the same religion, attached to the same principles of
government, very similar in their manners and customs, and who, by their joint counsels, arms,
and efforts, fighting side by side throughout a long and bloody war, have nobly established
general liberty and independence.

This country and this people seem to have been made for each other, and it appears as if it was
the design of Providence, that an inheritance so proper and convenient for a band of brethren,
united to each other by the strongest ties, should never be split into a number of unsocial, jealous,
and alien sovereignties.

Similar sentiments have hitherto prevailed among all orders and denominations of men among
us. To all general purposes we have uniformly been one people each individual citizen
everywhere enjoying the same national rights, privileges, and protection. As a nation we have
made peace and war; as a nation we have vanquished our common enemies; as a nation we have
formed alliances, and made treaties, and entered into various compacts and conventions with
foreign states.

A strong sense of the value and blessings of union induced the people, at a very early period, to
institute a federal government to preserve and perpetuate it. They formed it almost as soon as
they had a political existence; nay, at a time when their habitations were in flames, when many
of their citizens were bleeding, and when the progress of hostility and desolation left little room
for those calm and mature inquiries and reflections which must ever precede the formation of a
wise and well-balanced government for a free people. It is not to be wondered at, that a
government instituted in times so inauspicious, should on experiment be found greatly deficient
and inadequate to the purpose it was intended to answer.

This intelligent people perceived and regretted these defects. Still continuing no less attached to
union than enamored of liberty, they observed the danger which immediately threatened the
former and more remotely the latter; and being pursuaded that ample security for both could only
be found in a national government more wisely framed, they as with one voice, convened the late
convention at Philadelphia, to take that important subject under consideration.

This convention, composed of men who possessed the confidence of the people, and many of
whom had become highly distinguished by their patriotism, virtue and wisdom, in times which
tried the minds and hearts of men, undertook the arduous task. In the mild season of peace, with
minds unoccupied by other subjects, they passed many months in cool, uninterrupted, and daily
consultation; and finally, without having been awed by power, or influenced by any passions
except love for their country, they presented and recommended to the people the plan produced
by their joint and very unanimous councils.




                                                                   22
 
                               


Admit, for so is the fact, that this plan is only recommended, not imposed, yet let it be
remembered that it is neither recommended to blind approbation, nor to blind reprobation; but to
that sedate and candid consideration which the magnitude and importance of the subject demand,
and which it certainly ought to receive. But this (as was remarked in the foregoing number of this
paper) is more to be wished than expected, that it may be so considered and examined.
Experience on a former occasion teaches us not to be too sanguine in such hopes. It is not yet
forgotten that well-grounded apprehensions of imminent danger induced the people of America
to form the memorable Congress of 1774. That body recommended certain measures to their
constituents, and the event proved their wisdom; yet it is fresh in our memories how soon the
press began to teem with pamphlets and weekly papers against those very measures. Not only
many of the officers of government, who obeyed the dictates of personal interest, but others,
from a mistaken estimate of consequences, or the undue influence of former attachments, or
whose ambition aimed at objects which did not correspond with the public good, were
indefatigable in their efforts to pursuade the people to reject the advice of that patriotic Congress.
Many, indeed, were deceived and deluded, but the great majority of the people reasoned and
decided judiciously; and happy they are in reflecting that they did so.

They considered that the Congress was composed of many wise and experienced men. That,
being convened from different parts of the country, they brought with them and communicated to
each other a variety of useful information. That, in the course of the time they passed together in
inquiring into and discussing the true interests of their country, they must have acquired very
accurate knowledge on that head. That they were individually interested in the public liberty and
prosperity, and therefore that it was not less their inclination than their duty to recommend only
such measures as, after the most mature deliberation, they really thought prudent and advisable.

These and similar considerations then induced the people to rely greatly on the judgment and
integrity of the Congress; and they took their advice, notwithstanding the various arts and
endeavors used to deter them from it. But if the people at large had reason to confide in the men
of that Congress, few of whom had been fully tried or generally known, still greater reason have
they now to respect the judgment and advice of the convention, for it is well known that some of
the most distinguished members of that Congress, who have been since tried and justly approved
for patriotism and abilities, and who have grown old in acquiring political information, were also
members of this convention, and carried into it their accumulated knowledge and experience.

It is worthy of remark that not only the first, but every succeeding Congress, as well as the late
convention, have invariably joined with the people in thinking that the prosperity of America
depended on its Union. To preserve and perpetuate it was the great object of the people in
forming that convention, and it is also the great object of the plan which the convention has
advised them to adopt. With what propriety, therefore, or for what good purposes, are attempts at
this particular period made by some men to depreciate the importance of the Union? Or why is it
suggested that three or four confederacies would be better than one? I am persuaded in my own
mind that the people have always thought right on this subject, and that their universal and
uniform attachment to the cause of the Union rests on great and weighty reasons, which I shall



                                                                    23
 
                              


endeavor to develop and explain in some ensuing papers. They who promote the idea of
substituting a number of distinct confederacies in the room of the plan of the convention, seem
clearly to foresee that the rejection of it would put the continuance of the Union in the utmost
jeopardy. That certainly would be the case, and I sincerely wish that it may be as clearly foreseen
by every good citizen, that whenever the dissolution of the Union arrives, America will have
reason to exclaim, in the words of the poet: "FAREWELL! A LONG FAREWELL TO ALL MY
GREATNESS."




                                                                 24
 
                               



Federalist No. 3 - Concerning Dangers from Foreign Force and
Influence (continued)
Written by John Jay
Independent Journal, November 3, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

IT IS not a new observation that the people of any country (if, like the Americans, intelligent and
well-informed) seldom adopt and steadily persevere for many years in an erroneous opinion
respecting their interests. That consideration naturally tends to create great respect for the high
opinion which the people of America have so long and uniformly entertained of the importance
of their continuing firmly united under one federal government, vested with sufficient powers for
all general and national purposes.

The more attentively I consider and investigate the reasons which appear to have given birth to
this opinion, the more I become convinced that they are cogent and conclusive.

Among the many objects to which a wise and free people find it necessary to direct their
attention, that of providing for their safety seems to be the first. The safety of the people
doubtless has relation to a great variety of circumstances and considerations, and consequently
affords great latitude to those who wish to define it precisely and comprehensively.

At present I mean only to consider it as it respects security for the preservation of peace and
tranquillity, as well as against dangers from foreign arms and influence, as from dangers of the
like kind arising from domestic causes. As the former of these comes first in order, it is proper it
should be the first discussed. Let us therefore proceed to examine whether the people are not
right in their opinion that a cordial Union, under an efficient national government, affords them
the best security that can be devised against hostilities from abroad.

The number of wars which have happened or will happen in the world will always be found to be
in proportion to the number and weight of the causes, whether real or pretended, which provoke
or invite them. If this remark be just, it becomes useful to inquire whether so many just causes of
war are likely to be given by united America as by disunited America; for if it should turn out
that United America will probably give the fewest, then it will follow that in this respect the
Union tends most to preserve the people in a state of peace with other nations.

The just causes of war, for the most part, arise either from violation of treaties or from direct
violence. America has already formed treaties with no less than six foreign nations, and all of
them, except Prussia, are maritime, and therefore able to annoy and injure us. She has also
extensive commerce with Portugal, Spain, and Britain, and, with respect to the two latter, has, in
addition, the circumstance of neighborhood to attend to.


                                                                   25
 
                               



It is of high importance to the peace of America that she observe the laws of nations towards all
these powers, and to me it appears evident that this will be more perfectly and punctually done
by one national government than it could be either by thirteen separate States or by three or four
distinct confederacies. For this opinion various reasons may be assigned.

When once an efficient national government is established, the best men in the country will not
only consent to serve, but also will generally be appointed to manage it; for, although town or
country, or other contracted influence, may place men in State assemblies, or senates, or courts
of justice, or executive departments, yet more general and extensive reputation for talents and
other qualifications will be necessary to recommend men to offices under the national
government, — especially as it will have the widest field for choice, and never experience that
want of proper persons which is not uncommon in some of the States. Hence, it will result that
the administration, the political counsels, and the judicial decisions of the national government
will be more wise, systematical, and judicious than those of individual States, and consequently
more satisfactory with respect to other nations, as well as more safe with respect to us.

Under the national government, treaties and articles of treaties, as well as the laws of nations,
will always be expounded in one sense and executed in the same manner, — whereas,
adjudications on the same points and questions, in thirteen States, or in three or four
confederacies, will not always accord or be consistent; and that, as well from the variety of
independent courts and judges appointed by different and independent governments, as from the
different local laws and interests which may affect and influence them. The wisdom of the
convention, in committing such questions to the jurisdiction and judgment of courts appointed by
and responsible only to one national government, cannot be too much commended.

The prospect of present loss or advantage may often tempt the governing party in one or two
States to swerve from good faith and justice; but those temptations, not reaching the other States,
and consequently having little or no influence on the national government, the temptation will be
fruitless, and good faith and justice be preserved. The case of the treaty of peace with Britain
adds great weight to this reasoning.

If even the governing party in a State should be disposed to resist such temptations, yet as such
temptations may, and commonly do, result from circumstances peculiar to the State, and may
affect a great number of the inhabitants, the governing party may not always be able, if willing,
to prevent the injustice meditated, or to punish the aggressors. But the national government, not
being affected by those local circumstances, will neither be induced to commit the wrong
themselves, nor want power or inclination to prevent or punish its commission by others.

So far, therefore, as either designed or accidental violations of treaties and the laws of nations
afford just causes of war, they are less to be apprehended under one general government than
under several lesser ones, and in that respect the former most favors the safety of the people.




                                                                   26
 
                              


As to those just causes of war which proceed from direct and unlawful violence, it appears
equally clear to me that one good national government affords vastly more security against
dangers of that sort than can be derived from any other quarter.

Such violences are more frequently caused by the passions and interests of a part than of the
whole; of one or two States than of the Union. Not a single Indian war has yet been occasioned
by aggressions of the present federal government, feeble as it is; but there are several instances
of Indian hostilities having been provoked by the improper conduct of individual States, who,
either unable or unwilling to restrain or punish offenses, have given occasion to the slaughter of
many innocent inhabitants.

The neighborhood of Spanish and British territories, bordering on some States and not on others,
naturally confines the causes of quarrel more immediately to the borderers. The bordering States,
if any, will be those who, under the impulse of sudden irritation, and a quick sense of apparent
interest or injury, will be most likely, by direct violence, to excite war with these nations; and
nothing can so effectually obviate that danger as a national government, whose wisdom and
prudence will not be diminished by the passions which actuate the parties immediately
interested.

But not only fewer just causes of war will be given by the national government, but it will also
be more in their power to accommodate and settle them amicably. They will be more temperate
and cool, and in that respect, as well as in others, will be more in capacity to act advisedly than
the offending State. The pride of states, as well as of men, naturally disposes them to justify all
their actions, and opposes their acknowledging, correcting, or repairing their errors and offenses.
The national government, in such cases, will not be affected by this pride, but will proceed with
moderation and candor to consider and decide on the means most proper to extricate them from
the difficulties which threaten them.

Besides, it is well known that acknowledgments, explanations, and compensations are often
accepted as satisfactory from a strong united nation, which would be rejected as unsatisfactory if
offered by a State or confederacy of little consideration or power.

In the year 1685, the state of Genoa having offended Louis XIV, endeavored to appease him. He
demanded that they should send their Doge, or chief magistrate, accompanied by four of their
senators, to France, to ask his pardon and receive his terms. They were obliged to submit to it for
the sake of peace. Would he on any occasion either have demanded or have received the like
humiliation from Spain, or Britain, or any other powerful nation?




                                                                 27
 
                              



Federalist No. 4 - Concerning Dangers from Foreign Force and
Influence (continued)
Written by John Jay
Independent Journal, November 7, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

MY LAST paper assigned several reasons why the safety of the people would be best secured by
union against the danger it may be exposed to by JUST causes of war given to other nations; and
those reasons show that such causes would not only be more rarely given, but would also be
more easily accommodated, by a national government than either by the State governments or
the proposed little confederacies.

But the safety of the people of America against dangers from FOREIGN force depends not only
on their forbearing to give JUST causes of war to other nations, but also on their placing and
continuing themselves in such a situation as not to INVITE hostility or insult; for it need not be
observed that there are PRETENDED as well as just causes of war.

It is too true, however disgraceful it may be to human nature, that nations in general will make
war whenever they have a prospect of getting anything by it; nay, absolute monarchs will often
make war when their nations are to get nothing by it, but for the purposes and objects merely
personal, such as thirst for military glory, revenge for personal affronts, ambition, or private
compacts to aggrandize or support their particular families or partisans. These and a variety of
other motives, which affect only the mind of the sovereign, often lead him to engage in wars not
sanctified by justice or the voice and interests of his people. But, independent of these
inducements to war, which are more prevalent in absolute monarchies, but which well deserve
our attention, there are others which affect nations as often as kings; and some of them will on
examination be found to grow out of our relative situation and circumstances.

With France and with Britain we are rivals in the fisheries, and can supply their markets cheaper
than they can themselves, notwithstanding any efforts to prevent it by bounties on their own or
duties on foreign fish.

With them and with most other European nations we are rivals in navigation and the carrying
trade; and we shall deceive ourselves if we suppose that any of them will rejoice to see it
flourish; for, as our carrying trade cannot increase without in some degree diminishing theirs, it
is more their interest, and will be more their policy, to restrain than to promote it.

In the trade to China and India, we interfere with more than one nation, inasmuch as it enables us
to partake in advantages which they had in a manner monopolized, and as we thereby supply
ourselves with commodities which we used to purchase from them.


                                                                  28
 
                                



The extension of our own commerce in our own vessels cannot give pleasure to any nations who
possess territories on or near this continent, because the cheapness and excellence of our
productions, added to the circumstance of vicinity, and the enterprise and address of our
merchants and navigators, will give us a greater share in the advantages which those territories
afford, than consists with the wishes or policy of their respective sovereigns.

Spain thinks it convenient to shut the Mississippi against us on the one side, and Britain excludes
us from the Saint Lawrence on the other; nor will either of them permit the other waters which
are between them and us to become the means of mutual intercourse and traffic.

From these and such like considerations, which might, if consistent with prudence, be more
amplified and detailed, it is easy to see that jealousies and uneasinesses may gradually slide into
the minds and cabinets of other nations, and that we are not to expect that they should regard our
advancement in union, in power and consequence by land and by sea, with an eye of indifference
and composure.

The people of America are aware that inducements to war may arise out of these circumstances,
as well as from others not so obvious at present, and that whenever such inducements may find
fit time and opportunity for operation, pretenses to color and justify them will not be wanting.
Wisely, therefore, do they consider union and a good national government as necessary to put
and keep them in SUCH A SITUATION as, instead of INVITING war, will tend to repress and
discourage it. That situation consists in the best possible state of defense, and necessarily
depends on the government, the arms, and the resources of the country.

As the safety of the whole is the interest of the whole, and cannot be provided for without
government, either one or more or many, let us inquire whether one good government is not,
relative to the object in question, more competent than any other given number whatever.

One government can collect and avail itself of the talents and experience of the ablest men, in
whatever part of the Union they may be found. It can move on uniform principles of policy. It
can harmonize, assimilate, and protect the several parts and members, and extend the benefit of
its foresight and precautions to each. In the formation of treaties, it will regard the interest of the
whole, and the particular interests of the parts as connected with that of the whole. It can apply
the resources and power of the whole to the defense of any particular part, and that more easily
and expeditiously than State governments or separate confederacies can possibly do, for want of
concert and unity of system. It can place the militia under one plan of discipline, and, by putting
their officers in a proper line of subordination to the Chief Magistrate, will, as it were,
consolidate them into one corps, and thereby render them more efficient than if divided into
thirteen or into three or four distinct independent companies.

What would the militia of Britain be if the English militia obeyed the government of England, if
the Scotch militia obeyed the government of Scotland, and if the Welsh militia obeyed the



                                                                      29
 
                               


government of Wales? Suppose an invasion; would those three governments (if they agreed at
all) be able, with all their respective forces, to operate against the enemy so effectually as the
single government of Great Britain would?

We have heard much of the fleets of Britain, and the time may come, if we are wise, when the
fleets of America may engage attention. But if one national government, had not so regulated the
navigation of Britain as to make it a nursery for seamen–if one national government had not
called forth all the national means and materials for forming fleets, their prowess and their
thunder would never have been celebrated. Let England have its navigation and fleet–let
Scotland have its navigation and fleet–let Wales have its navigation and fleet–let Ireland have its
navigation and fleet–let those four of the constituent parts of the British empire be be under four
independent governments, and it is easy to perceive how soon they would each dwindle into
comparative insignificance.

Apply these facts to our own case. Leave America divided into thirteen or, if you please, into
three or four independent governments–what armies could they raise and pay–what fleets could
they ever hope to have? If one was attacked, would the others fly to its succor, and spend their
blood and money in its defense? Would there be no danger of their being flattered into neutrality
by its specious promises, or seduced by a too great fondness for peace to decline hazarding their
tranquillity and present safety for the sake of neighbors, of whom perhaps they have been
jealous, and whose importance they are content to see diminished? Although such conduct would
not be wise, it would, nevertheless, be natural. The history of the states of Greece, and of other
countries, abounds with such instances, and it is not improbable that what has so often happened
would, under similar circumstances, happen again.

But admit that they might be willing to help the invaded State or confederacy. How, and when,
and in what proportion shall aids of men and money be afforded? Who shall command the allied
armies, and from which of them shall he receive his orders? Who shall settle the terms of peace,
and in case of disputes what umpire shall decide between them and compel acquiescence?
Various difficulties and inconveniences would be inseparable from such a situation; whereas one
government, watching over the general and common interests, and combining and directing the
powers and resources of the whole, would be free from all these embarrassments, and conduce
far more to the safety of the people.

But whatever may be our situation, whether firmly united under one national government, or
split into a number of confederacies, certain it is, that foreign nations will know and view it
exactly as it is; and they will act toward us accordingly. If they see that our national government
is efficient and well administered, our trade prudently regulated, our militia properly organized
and disciplined, our resources and finances discreetly managed, our credit re-established, our
people free, contented, and united, they will be much more disposed to cultivate our friendship
than provoke our resentment. If, on the other hand, they find us either destitute of an effectual
government (each State doing right or wrong, as to its rulers may seem convenient), or split into
three or four independent and probably discordant republics or confederacies, one inclining to



                                                                   30
 
                              


Britain, another to France, and a third to Spain, and perhaps played off against each other by the
three, what a poor, pitiful figure will America make in their eyes! How liable would she become
not only to their contempt but to their outrage, and how soon would dear-bought experience
proclaim that when a people or family so divide, it never fails to be against themselves.




                                                                 31
 
                              



Federalist No. 5 - Concerning Dangers from Foreign Force and
Influence (continued)
Written by John Jay
Independent Journal, November 10, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

QUEEN ANNE, in her letter of the 1st July, 1706, to the Scotch Parliament, makes some
observations on the importance of the Union then forming between England and Scotland, which
merit our attention. I shall present the public with one or two extracts from it: "An entire and
perfect union will be the solid foundation of lasting peace: It will secure your religion, liberty,
and property; remove the animosities amongst yourselves, and the jealousies and differences
betwixt our two kingdoms. It must increase your strength, riches, and trade; and by this union the
whole island, being joined in affection and free from all apprehensions of different interest, will
be enabled to resist all its enemies." "We most earnestly recommend to you calmness and
unanimity in this great and weighty affair, that the union may be brought to a happy conclusion,
being the only effectual way to secure our present and future happiness, and disappoint the
designs of our and your enemies, who will doubtless, on this occasion, use their utmost
endeavors to prevent or delay this union."

It was remarked in the preceding paper, that weakness and divisions at home would invite
dangers from abroad; and that nothing would tend more to secure us from them than union,
strength, and good government within ourselves. This subject is copious and cannot easily be
exhausted.

The history of Great Britain is the one with which we are in general the best acquainted, and it
gives us many useful lessons. We may profit by their experience without paying the price which
it cost them. Although it seems obvious to common sense that the people of such an island
should be but one nation, yet we find that they were for ages divided into three, and that those
three were almost constantly embroiled in quarrels and wars with one another. Notwithstanding
their true interest with respect to the continental nations was really the same, yet by the arts and
policy and practices of those nations, their mutual jealousies were perpetually kept inflamed, and
for a long series of years they were far more inconvenient and troublesome than they were useful
and assisting to each other.

Should the people of America divide themselves into three or four nations, would not the same
thing happen? Would not similar jealousies arise, and be in like manner cherished? Instead of
their being “joined in affection” and free from all apprehension of different interests,” envy and
jealousy would soon extinguish confidence and affection, and the partial interests of each
confederacy, instead of the general interests of all America, would be the only objects of their



                                                                  32
 
                              


policy and pursuits. Hence, like most other bordering nations, they would always be either
involved in disputes and war, or live in the constant apprehension of them.

The most sanguine advocates for three or four confederacies cannot reasonably suppose that they
would long remain exactly on an equal footing in point of strength, even if it was possible to
form them so at first; but, admitting that to be practicable, yet what human contrivance can
secure the continuance of such equality? Independent of those local circumstances which tend to
beget and increase power in one part and to impede its progress in another, we must advert to the
effects of that superior policy and good management which would probably distinguish the
government of one above the rest, and by which their relative equality in strength and
consideration would be destroyed. For it cannot be presumed that the same degree of sound
policy, prudence, and foresight would uniformly be observed by each of these confederacies for
a long succession of years.

Whenever, and from whatever causes, it might happen, and happen it would, that any one of
these nations or confederacies should rise on the scale of political importance much above the
degree of her neighbors, that moment would those neighbors behold her with envy and with fear.
Both those passions would lead them to countenance, if not to promote, whatever might promise
to diminish her importance; and would also restrain them from measures calculated to advance or
even to secure her prosperity. Much time would not be necessary to enable her to discern these
unfriendly dispositions. She would soon begin, not only to lose confidence in her neighbors, but
also to feel a disposition equally unfavorable to them. Distrust naturally creates distrust, and by
nothing is good-will and kind conduct more speedily changed than by invidious jealousies and
uncandid imputations, whether expressed or implied.

The North is generally the region of strength, and many local circumstances render it probable
that the most Northern of the proposed confederacies would, at a period not very distant, be
unquestionably more formidable than any of the others. No sooner would this become evident
than the Northern Hive would excite the same ideas and sensations in the more southern parts of
America which it formerly did in the southern parts of Europe. Nor does it appear to be a rash
conjecture that its young swarms might often be tempted to gather honey in the more blooming
fields and milder air of their luxurious and more delicate neighbors.

They who well consider the history of similar divisions and confederacies will find abundant
reason to apprehend that those in contemplation would in no other sense be neighbors than as
they would be borderers; that they would neither love nor trust one another, but on the contrary
would be a prey to discord, jealousy, and mutual injuries; in short, that they would place us
exactly in the situations in which some nations doubtless wish to see us, viz., formidable only to
each other.

From these considerations it appears that those gentlemen are greatly mistaken who suppose that
alliances offensive and defensive might be formed between these confederacies, and would




                                                                 33
 
                               


produce that combination and union of wills of arms and of resources, which would be necessary
to put and keep them in a formidable state of defense against foreign enemies.

When did the independent states, into which Britain and Spain were formerly divided, combine
in such alliance, or unite their forces against a foreign enemy? The proposed confederacies will
be distinct nations. Each of them would have its commerce with foreigners to regulate by distinct
treaties; and as their productions and commodities are different and proper for different markets,
so would those treaties be essentially different. Different commercial concerns must create
different interests, and of course different degrees of political attachment to and connection with
different foreign nations. Hence it might and probably would happen that the foreign nation with
whom the Southern confederacy might be at war would be the one with whom the Northern
confederacy would be the most desirous of preserving peace and friendship. An alliance so
contrary to their immediate interest would not therefore be easy to form, nor, if formed, would it
be observed and fulfilled with perfect good faith.

Nay, it is far more probable that in America, as in Europe, neighboring nations, acting under the
impulse of opposite interests and unfriendly passions, would frequently be found taking different
sides. Considering our distance from Europe, it would be more natural for these confederacies to
apprehend danger from one another than from distant nations, and therefore that each of them
should be more desirous to guard against the others by the aid of foreign alliances, than to guard
against foreign dangers by alliances between themselves. And here let us not forget how much
more easy it is to receive foreign fleets into our ports, and foreign armies into our country, than it
is to persuade or compel them to depart. How many conquests did the Romans and others make
in the characters of allies, and what innovations did they under the same character introduce into
the governments of those whom they pretended to protect.

Let candid men judge, then, whether the division of America into any given number of
independent sovereignties would tend to secure us against the hostilities and improper
interference of foreign nations.




                                                                    34
 
                               



Federalist No. 6 - Concerning Dangers from Dissensions Between
the States
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, November 14, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

THE three last numbers of this paper have been dedicated to an enumeration of the dangers to
which we should be exposed, in a state of disunion, from the arms and arts of foreign nations. I
shall now proceed to delineate dangers of a different and, perhaps, still more alarming kind —
those which will in all probability flow from dissensions between the States themselves, and
from domestic factions and convulsions. These have been already in some instances slightly
anticipated; but they deserve a more particular and more full investigation.

A man must be far gone in Utopian speculations who can seriously doubt that, if these States
should either be wholly disunited, or only united in partial confederacies, the subdivisions into
which they might be thrown would have frequent and violent contests with each other. To
presume a want of motives for such contests as an argument against their existence, would be to
forget that men are ambitious, vindictive, and rapacious. To look for a continuation of harmony
between a number of independent, unconnected sovereignties in the same neighborhood, would
be to disregard the uniform course of human events, and to set at defiance the accumulated
experience of ages.

The causes of hostility among nations are innumerable. There are some which have a general and
almost constant operation upon the collective bodies of society. Of this description are the love
of power or the desire of pre-eminence and dominion — the jealousy of power, or the desire of
equality and safety. There are others which have a more circumscribed though an equally
operative influence within their spheres. Such are the rivalships and competitions of commerce
between commercial nations. And there are others, not less numerous than either of the former,
which take their origin entirely in private passions; in the attachments, enmities, interests, hopes,
and fears of leading individuals in the communities of which they are members. Men of this
class, whether the favorites of a king or of a people, have in too many instances abused the
confidence they possessed; and assuming the pretext of some public motive, have not scrupled to
sacrifice the national tranquillity to personal advantage or personal gratification.

The celebrated Pericles, in compliance with the resentment of a prostitute,1 at the expense of
much of the blood and treasure of his countrymen, attacked, vanquished, and destroyed the city
of the Samnians. The same man, stimulated by private pique against the Megarensians,2 another
nation of Greece, or to avoid a prosecution with which he was threatened as an accomplice of a
supposed theft of the statuary Phidias,3 or to get rid of the accusations prepared to be brought
against him for dissipating the funds of the state in the purchase of popularity,4 or from a


                                                                   35
 
                               


combination of all these causes, was the primitive author of that famous and fatal war,
distinguished in the Grecian annals by the name of the Peloponnesian war; which, after various
vicissitudes, intermissions, and renewals, terminated in the ruin of the Athenian commonwealth.

The ambitious cardinal, who was prime minister to Henry VIII., permitting his vanity to aspire to
the triple crown, entertained hopes of succeeding in the acquisition of that splendid prize by the
influence of the Emperor Charles V. To secure the favor and interest of this enterprising and
powerful monarch, he precipitated England into a war with France, contrary to the plainest
dictates of policy, and at the hazard of the safety and independence, as well of the kingdom over
which he presided by his counsels, as of Europe in general. For if there ever was a sovereign who
bid fair to realize the project of universal monarchy, it was the Emperor Charles V., of whose
intrigues Wolsey was at once the instrument and the dupe.

The influence which the bigotry of one female, the petulance of another, and the cabals of a
third, had in the contemporary policy, ferments, and pacifications, of a considerable part of
Europe, are topics that have been too often descanted upon not to be generally known.

To multiply examples of the agency of personal considerations in the production of great
national events, either foreign or domestic, according to their direction, would be an unnecessary
waste of time. Those who have but a superficial acquaintance with the sources from which they
are to be drawn, will themselves recollect a variety of instances; and those who have a tolerable
knowledge of human nature will not stand in need of such lights to form their opinion either of
the reality or extent of that agency. Perhaps, however, a reference, tending to illustrate the
general principle, may with propriety be made to a case which has lately happened among
ourselves. If Shays had not been a desperate debtor, it is much to be doubted whether
Massachusetts would have been plunged into a civil war.

But notwithstanding the concurring testimony of experience, in this particular, there are still to
be found visionary or designing men, who stand ready to advocate the paradox of perpetual
peace between the States, though dismembered and alienated from each other. The genius of
republics (say they) is pacific; the spirit of commerce has a tendency to soften the manners of
men, and to extinguish those inflammable humors which have so often kindled into wars.
Commercial republics, like ours, will never be disposed to waste themselves in ruinous
contentions with each other. They will be governed by mutual interest, and will cultivate a spirit
of mutual amity and concord.

Is it not (we may ask these projectors in politics) the true interest of all nations to cultivate the
same benevolent and philosophic spirit? If this be their true interest, have they in fact pursued it?
Has it not, on the contrary, invariably been found that momentary passions, and immediate
interest, have a more active and imperious control over human conduct than general or remote
considerations of policy, utility or justice? Have republics in practice been less addicted to war
than monarchies? Are not the former administered by men as well as the latter? Are there not
aversions, predilections, rivalships, and desires of unjust acquisitions, that affect nations as well



                                                                   36
 
                              


as kings? Are not popular assemblies frequently subject to the impulses of rage, resentment,
jealousy, avarice, and of other irregular and violent propensities? Is it not well known that their
determinations are often governed by a few individuals in whom they place confidence, and are,
of course, liable to be tinctured by the passions and views of those individuals? Has commerce
hitherto done anything more than change the objects of war? Is not the love of wealth as
domineering and enterprising a passion as that of power or glory? Have there not been as many
wars founded upon commercial motives since that has become the prevailing system of nations,
as were before occasioned by the cupidity of territory or dominion? Has not the spirit of
commerce, in many instances, administered new incentives to the appetite, both for the one and
for the other? Let experience, the least fallible guide of human opinions, be appealed to for an
answer to these inquiries.

Sparta, Athens, Rome, and Carthage were all republics; two of them, Athens and Carthage, of the
commercial kind. Yet were they as often engaged in wars, offensive and defensive, as the
neighboring monarchies of the same times. Sparta was little better than a well-regulated camp;
and Rome was never sated of carnage and conquest.

Carthage, though a commercial republic, was the aggressor in the very war that ended in her
destruction. Hannibal had carried her arms into the heart of Italy and to the gates of Rome,
before Scipio, in turn, gave him an overthrow in the territories of Carthage, and made a conquest
of the commonwealth.

Venice, in later times, figured more than once in wars of ambition, till, becoming an object to the
other Italian states, Pope Julius II. found means to accomplish that formidable league, which
gave a deadly blow to the power and pride of this haughty republic.

The provinces of Holland, till they were overwhelmed in debts and taxes, took a leading and
conspicuous part in the wars of Europe. They had furious contests with England for the dominion
of the sea, and were among the most persevering and most implacable of the opponents of Louis
XIV.

In the government of Britain the representatives of the people compose one branch of the
national legislature. Commerce has been for ages the predominant pursuit of that country. Few
nations, nevertheless, have been more frequently engaged in war; and the wars in which that
kingdom has been engaged have, in numerous instances, proceeded from the people.

There have been, if I may so express it, almost as many popular as royal wars. The cries of the
nation and the importunities of their representatives have, upon various occasions, dragged their
monarchs into war, or continued them in it, contrary to their inclinations, and sometimes contrary
to the real interests of the State. In that memorable struggle for superiority between the rival
houses of Austria and Bourbon, which so long kept Europe in a flame, it is well known that the
antipathies of the English against the French, seconding the ambition, or rather the avarice, of a




                                                                  37
 
                               


favorite leader,10 protracted the war beyond the limits marked out by sound policy, and for a
considerable time in opposition to the views of the court.

The wars of these two last-mentioned nations have in a great measure grown out of commercial
considerations, — the desire of supplanting and the fear of being supplanted, either in particular
branches of traffic or in the general advantages of trade and navigation, and sometimes even the
more culpable desire of sharing in the commerce of other nations without their consent.

The last war but between Britain and Spain sprang from the attempts of the British merchants to
prosecute an illicit trade with the Spanish main. These unjustifiable practices on their part
produced severity on the part of the Spaniards toward the subjects of Great Britain which were
not more justifiable, because they exceeded the bounds of a just retaliation and were chargeable
with inhumanity and cruelty. Many of the English who were taken on the Spanish coast were
sent to dig in the mines of Potosi; and by the usual progress of a spirit of resentment, the
innocent were, after a while, confounded with the guilty in indiscriminate punishment. The
complaints of the merchants kindled a violent flame throughout the nation, which soon after
broke out in the House of Commons, and was communicated from that body to the ministry.
Letters of reprisal were granted, and a war ensued, which in its consequences overthrew all the
alliances that but twenty years before had been formed with sanguine expectations of the most
beneficial fruits.

From this summary of what has taken place in other countries, whose situations have borne the
nearest resemblance to our own, what reason can we have to confide in those reveries which
would seduce us into an expectation of peace and cordiality between the members of the present
confederacy, in a state of separation? Have we not already seen enough of the fallacy and
extravagance of those idle theories which have amused us with promises of an exemption from
the imperfections, weaknesses and evils incident to society in every shape? Is it not time to
awake from the deceitful dream of a golden age, and to adopt as a practical maxim for the
direction of our political conduct that we, as well as the other inhabitants of the globe, are yet
remote from the happy empire of perfect wisdom and perfect virtue?

Let the point of extreme depression to which our national dignity and credit have sunk, let the
inconveniences felt everywhere from a lax and ill administration of government, let the revolt of
a part of the State of North Carolina, the late menacing disturbances in Pennsylvania, and the
actual insurrections and rebellions in Massachusetts, declare –!

So far is the general sense of mankind from corresponding with the tenets of those who endeavor
to lull asleep our apprehensions of discord and hostility between the States, in the event of
disunion, that it has from long observation of the progress of society become a sort of axiom in
politics, that vicinity or nearness of situation, constitutes nations natural enemies. An intelligent
writer expresses himself on this subject to this effect:




                                                                   38
 
                              


 ”NEIGHBORING NATIONS (says he) are naturally enemies of each other unless their common
weakness forces them to league in a CONFEDERATE REPUBLIC, and their constitution
prevents the differences that neighborhood occasions, extinguishing that secret jealousy which
disposes all states to aggrandize themselves at the expense of their neighbors.” This passage, at
the same time, points out the EVIL and suggests the REMEDY.




                                                               39
 
                              



Federalist No. 7 - Concerning Dangers from Dissensions Between
the States (continued) and Particular Causes Enumerated
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, November 15, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

IT IS sometimes asked, with an air of seeming triumph, what inducements could the States have,
if disunited, to make war upon each other? It would be a full answer to this question to say —
precisely the same inducements which have, at different times, deluged in blood all the nations in
the world. But, unfortunately for us, the question admits of a more particular answer. There are
causes of differences within our immediate contemplation, of the tendency of which, even under
the restraints of a federal constitution, we have had sufficient experience to enable us to form a
judgment of what might be expected if those restraints were removed.

Territorial disputes have at all times been found one of the most fertile sources of hostility
among nations. Perhaps the greatest proportion of wars that have desolated the earth have sprung
from this origin. This cause would exist among us in full force. We have a vast tract of unsettled
territory within the boundaries of the United States. There still are discordant and undecided
claims between several of them, and the dissolution of the Union would lay a foundation for
similar claims between them all. It is well known that they have heretofore had serious and
animated discussion concerning the rights to the lands which were ungranted at the time of the
Revolution, and which usually went under the name of crown lands. The States within the limits
of whose colonial governments they were comprised have claimed them as their property, the
others have contended that the rights of the crown in this article devolved upon the Union;
especially as to all that part of the Western territory which, either by actual possession, or
through the submission of the Indian proprietors, was subjected to the jurisdiction of the king of
Great Britain, till it was relinquished in the treaty of peace. This, it has been said, was at all
events an acquisition to the Confederacy by compact with a foreign power. It has been the
prudent policy of Congress to appease this controversy, by prevailing upon the States to make
cessions to the United States for the benefit of the whole. This has been so far accomplished as,
under a continuation of the Union, to afford a decided prospect of an amicable termination of the
dispute. A dismemberment of the Confederacy, however, would revive this dispute, and would
create others on the same subject. At present, a large part of the vacant Western territory is, by
cession at least, if not by any anterior right, the common property of the Union. If that were at an
end, the States which made the cession, on a principle of federal compromise, would be apt when
the motive of the grant had ceased, to reclaim the lands as a reversion. The other States would no
doubt insist on a proportion, by right of representation. Their argument would be, that a grant,
once made, could not be revoked; and that the justice of participating in territory acquired or
secured by the joint efforts of the Confederacy, remained undiminished. If, contrary to
probability, it should be admitted by all the States, that each had a right to a share of this


                                                                  40
 
                              


common stock, there would still be a difficulty to be surmounted, as to a proper rule of
apportionment. Different principles would be set up by different States for this purpose; and as
they would affect the opposite interests of the parties, they might not easily be susceptible of a
pacific adjustment.

In the wide field of Western territory, therefore, we perceive an ample theatre for hostile
pretensions, without any umpire or common judge to interpose between the contending parties.
To reason from the past to the future, we shall have good ground to apprehend, that the sword
would sometimes be appealed to as the arbiter of their differences. The circumstances of the
dispute between Connecticut and Pennsylvania, respecting the land at Wyoming, admonish us
not to be sanguine in expecting an easy accommodation of such differences. The articles of
confederation obliged the parties to submit the matter to the decision of a federal court. The
submission was made, and the court decided in favor of Pennsylvania. But Connecticut gave
strong indications of dissatisfaction with that determination; nor did she appear to be entirely
resigned to it, till, by negotiation and management, something like an equivalent was found for
the loss she supposed herself to have sustained. Nothing here said is intended to convey the
slightest censure on the conduct of that State. She no doubt sincerely believed herself to have
been injured by the decision; and States, like individuals, acquiesce with great reluctance in
determinations to their disadvantage.

Those who had an opportunity of seeing the inside of the transactions which attended the
progress of the controversy between this State and the district of Vermont, can vouch the
opposition we experienced, as well from States not interested as from those which were
interested in the claim; and can attest the danger to which the peace of the Confederacy might
have been exposed, had this State attempted to assert its rights by force. Two motives
preponderated in that opposition: one, a jealousy entertained of our future power; and the other,
the interest of certain individuals of influence in the neighboring States, who had obtained grants
of lands under the actual government of that district. Even the States which brought forward
claims, in contradiction to ours, seemed more solicitous to dismember this State, than to establish
their own pretensions. These were New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Connecticut. New Jersey
and Rhode Island, upon all occasions, discovered a warm zeal for the independence of Vermont;
and Maryland, till alarmed by the appearance of a connection between Canada and that State,
entered deeply into the same views. These being small States, saw with an unfriendly eye the
perspective of our growing greatness. In a review of these transactions we may trace some of the
causes which would be likely to embroil the States with each other, if it should be their
unpropitious destiny to become disunited.

The competitions of commerce would be another fruitful source of contention. The States less
favorably circumstanced would be desirous of escaping from the disadvantages of local situation,
and of sharing in the advantages of their more fortunate neighbors. Each State, or separate
confederacy, would pursue a system of commercial policy peculiar to itself. This would occasion
distinctions, preferences, and exclusions, which would beget discontent. The habits of
intercourse, on the basis of equal privileges, to which we have been accustomed since the earliest



                                                                  41
 
                               


settlement of the country, would give a keener edge to those causes of discontent than they
would naturally have independent of this circumstance. We should be ready to denominate
injuries those things which were in reality the justifiable acts of independent sovereignties
consulting a distinct interest. The spirit of enterprise, which characterizes the commercial part of
America, has left no occasion of displaying itself unimproved. It is not at all probable that this
unbridled spirit would pay much respect to those regulations of trade by which particular States
might endeavor to secure exclusive benefits to their own citizens. The infractions of these
regulations, on one side, the efforts to prevent and repel them, on the other, would naturally lead
to outrages, and these to reprisals and wars.

The opportunities which some States would have of rendering others tributary to them by
commercial regulations would be impatiently submitted to by the tributary States. The relative
situation of New York, Connecticut, and New Jersey would afford an example of this kind. New
York, from the necessities of revenue, must lay duties on her importations. A great part of these
duties must be paid by the inhabitants of the two other States in the capacity of consumers of
what we import. New York would neither be willing nor able to forego this advantage. Her
citizens would not consent that a duty paid by them should be remitted in favor of the citizens of
her neighbors; nor would it be practicable, if there were not this impediment in the way, to
distinguish the customers in our own markets. Would Connecticut and New Jersey long submit
to be taxed by New York for her exclusive benefit? Should we be long permitted to remain in the
quiet and undisturbed enjoyment of a metropolis, from the possession of which we derived an
advantage so odious to our neighbors, and, in their opinion, so oppressive? Should we be able to
preserve it against the incumbent weight of Connecticut on the one side, and the co-operating
pressure of New Jersey on the other? These are questions that temerity alone will answer in the
affirmative.

The public debt of the Union would be a further cause of collision between the separate States or
confederacies. The apportionment, in the first instance, and the progressive extinguishment
afterward, would be alike productive of ill-humor and animosity. How would it be possible to
agree upon a rule of apportionment satisfactory to all? There is scarcely any that can be proposed
which is entirely free from real objections. These, as usual, would be exaggerated by the adverse
interest of the parties. There are even dissimilar views among the States as to the general
principle of discharging the public debt. Some of them, either less impressed with the importance
of national credit, or because their citizens have little, if any, immediate interest in the question,
feel an indifference, if not a repugnance, to the payment of the domestic debt at any rate. These
would be inclined to magnify the difficulties of a distribution. Others of them, a numerous body
of whose citizens are creditors to the public beyond proportion of the State in the total amount of
the national debt, would be strenuous for some equitable and effective provision. The
procrastinations of the former would excite the resentments of the latter. The settlement of a rule
would, in the meantime, be postponed by real differences of opinion and affected delays. The
citizens of the States interested would clamour; foreign powers would urge for the satisfaction of
their just demands, and the peace of the States would be hazarded to the double contingency of
external invasion and internal contention.



                                                                    42
 
                                



Suppose the difficulties of agreeing upon a rule surmounted, and the apportionment made. Still
there is great room to suppose that the rule agreed upon would, upon experiment, be found to
bear harder upon some States than upon others. Those which were sufferers by it would naturally
seek for a mitigation of the burden. The others would as naturally be disinclined to a revision,
which was likely to end in an increase of their own incumbrances. Their refusal would be too
plausible a pretext to the complaining States to withhold their contributions, not to be embraced
with avidity; and the non-compliance of these States with their engagements would be a ground
of bitter discussion and altercation. If even the rule adopted should in practice justify the equality
of its principle, still delinquencies in payments on the part of some of the States would result
from a diversity of other causes — the real deficiency of resources; the mismanagement of their
finances; accidental disorders in the management of the government; and, in addition to the rest,
the reluctance with which men commonly part with money for purposes that have outlived the
exigencies which produced them, and interfere with the supply of immediate wants.
Delinquencies, from whatever causes, would be productive of complaints, recriminations, and
quarrels. There is, perhaps, nothing more likely to disturb the tranquillity of nations than their
being bound to mutual contributions for any common object that does not yield an equal and
coincident benefit. For it is an observation, as true as it is trite, that there is nothing men differ so
readily about as the payment of money.

Laws in violation of private contracts, as they amount to aggressions on the rights of those States
whose citizens are injured by them, may be considered as another probable source of hostility.
We are not authorized to expect that a more liberal or more equitable spirit would preside over
the legislations of the individual States hereafter, if unrestrained by any additional checks, than
we have heretofore seen in too many instances disgracing their several codes. We have observed
the disposition to retaliation excited in Connecticut in consequence of the enormities perpetrated
by the Legislature of Rhode Island; and we reasonably infer that, in similar cases, under other
circumstances, a war, not of parchment, but of the sword, would chastise such atrocious breaches
of moral obligation and social justice.

The probability of incompatible alliances between the different States or confederacies and
different foreign nations, and the effects of this situation upon the peace of the whole, have been
sufficiently unfolded in some preceding papers. From the view they have exhibited of this part of
the subject, this conclusion is to be drawn, that America, if not connected at all, or only by the
feeble tie of a simple league, offensive and defensive, would, by the operation of such jarring
alliances, be gradually entangled in all the pernicious labyrinths of European politics and wars;
and by the destructive contentions of the parts into which she was divided, would be likely to
become a prey to the artifices and machinations of powers equally the enemies of them all.
Divide et impera[1] must be the motto of every nation that either hates or fears us.

[1] Divide and command




                                                                      43
 
                              



Federalist No. 8 - Consequences of Hostilities Between the States
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, November 20, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

ASSUMING it therefore as an established truth that the several States, in case of disunion, or
such combinations of them as might happen to be formed out of the wreck of the general
Confederacy, would be subject to those vicissitudes of peace and war, of friendship and enmity,
with each other, which have fallen to the lot of all neighboring nations not united under one
government, let us enter into a concise detail of some of the consequences that would attend such
a situation.

War between the States, in the first period of their separate existence, would be accompanied
with much greater distresses than it commonly is in those countries where regular military
establishments have long obtained. The disciplined armies always kept on foot on the continent
of Europe, though they bear a malignant aspect to liberty and economy, have, notwithstanding,
been productive of the signal advantage of rendering sudden conquests impracticable, and of
preventing that rapid desolation which used to mark the progress of war prior to their
introduction. The art of fortification has contributed to the same ends. The nations of Europe are
encircled with chains of fortified places, which mutually obstruct invasion. Campaigns are
wasted in reducing two or three frontier garrisons, to gain admittance into an enemy’s country.
Similar impediments occur at every step, to exhaust the strength and delay the progress of an
invader. Formerly, an invading army would penetrate into the heart of a neighboring country
almost as soon as intelligence of its approach could be received; but now a comparatively small
force of disciplined troops, acting on the defensive, with the aid of posts, is able to impede, and
finally to frustrate, the enterprises of one much more considerable. The history of war, in that
quarter of the globe, is no longer a history of nations subdued and empires overturned, but of
towns taken and retaken; of battles that decide nothing; of retreats more beneficial than victories;
of much effort and little acquisition.

In this country the scene would be altogether reversed. The jealousy of military establishments
would postpone them as long as possible. The want of fortifications, leaving the frontiers of one
state open to another, would facilitate inroads. The populous States would, with little difficulty,
overrun their less populous neighbors. Conquests would be as easy to be made as difficult to be
retained. War, therefore, would be desultory and predatory. PLUNDER and devastation ever
march in the train of irregulars. The calamities of individuals would make the principal figure in
the events which would characterize our military exploits.

This picture is not too highly wrought; though, I confess, it would not long remain a just one.
Safety from external danger is the most powerful director of national conduct. Even the ardent



                                                                  44
 
                              


love of liberty will, after a time, give way to its dictates. The violent destruction of life and
property incident to war, the continual effort and alarm attendant on a state of continual danger,
will compel nations the most attached to liberty to resort for repose and security to institutions
which have a tendency to destroy their civil and political rights. To be more safe, they at length
become willing to run the risk of being less free.

The institutions chiefly alluded to are STANDING ARMIES and the correspondent appendages
of military establishments. Standing armies, it is said, are not provided against in the new
Constitution; and it is therefore inferred that they may exist under it. Their existence, however,
from the very terms of the proposition, is, at most, problematical and uncertain. But standing
armies, it may be replied, must inevitably result from a dissolution of the Confederacy. Frequent
war and constant apprehension, which require a state of as constant preparation, will infallibly
produce them. The weaker States or confederacies would first have recourse to them, to put
themselves upon an equality with their more potent neighbors. They would endeavor to supply
the inferiority of population and resources by a more regular and effective system of defense, by
disciplined troops, and by fortifications. They would, at the same time, be necessitated to
strengthen the executive arm of government, in doing which their constitutions would acquire a
progressive direction toward monarchy. It is of the nature of war to increase the executive at the
expense of the legislative authority.

The expedients which have been mentioned would soon give the States or confederacies that
made use of them a superiority over their neighbors. Small states, or states of less natural
strength, under vigorous governments, and with the assistance of disciplined armies, have often
triumphed over large states, or states of greater natural strength, which have been destitute of
these advantages. Neither the pride nor the safety of the more important States or confederacies
would permit them long to submit to this mortifying and adventitious superiority. They would
quickly resort to means similar to those by which it had been effected, to reinstate themselves in
their lost pre-eminence. Thus, we should, in a little time, see established in every part of this
country the same engines of despotism which have been the scourge of the Old World. This, at
least, would be the natural course of things; and our reasonings will be the more likely to be just,
in proportion as they are accommodated to this standard.

These are not vague inferences drawn from supposed or speculative defects in a Constitution, the
whole power of which is lodged in the hands of a people, or their representatives and delegates,
but they are solid conclusions, drawn from the natural and necessary progress of human affairs.

It may, perhaps, be asked, by way of objection to this, why did not standing armies spring up out
of the contentions which so often distracted the ancient republics of Greece? Different answers,
equally satisfactory, may be given to this question. The industrious habits of the people of the
present day, absorbed in the pursuits of gain, and devoted to the improvements of agriculture and
commerce, are incompatible with the condition of a nation of soldiers, which was the true
condition of the people of those republics. The means of revenue, which have been so greatly
multiplied by the increase of gold and silver and of the arts of industry, and the science of



                                                                  45
 
                                


finance, which is the offspring of modern times, concurring with the habits of nations, have
produced an entire revolution in the system of war, and have rendered disciplined armies, distinct
from the body of the citizens, the inseparable companions of frequent hostility.

There is a wide difference, also, between military establishments in a country seldom exposed by
its situation to internal invasions, and in one which is often subject to them, and always
apprehensive of them. The rulers of the former can have a good pretext, if they are even so
inclined, to keep on foot armies so numerous as must of necessity be maintained in the latter.
These armies being, in the first case, rarely, if at all, called into activity for interior defense, the
people are in no danger of being broken to military subordination. The laws are not accustomed
to relaxations, in favor of military exigencies; the civil state remains in full vigor, neither
corrupted, nor confounded with the principles or propensities of the other state. The smallness of
the army renders the natural strength of the community an overmatch for it; and the citizens, not
habituated to look up to the military power for protection, or to submit to its oppressions, neither
love nor fear the soldiery; they view them with a spirit of jealous acquiescence in a necessary
evil, and stand ready to resist a power which they suppose may be exerted to the prejudice of
their rights.

The army under such circumstances may usefully aid the magistrate to suppress a small faction,
or an occasional mob, or insurrection; but it will be unable to enforce encroachments against the
united efforts of the great body of the people.

In a country in the predicament last described, the contrary of all this happens. The perpetual
menacings of danger oblige the government to be always prepared to repel it; its armies must be
numerous enough for instant defense. The continual necessity for their services enhances the
importance of the soldier, and proportionably degrades the condition of the citizen. The military
state becomes elevated above the civil. The inhabitants of territories, often the theatre of war, are
unavoidably subjected to frequent infringements on their rights, which serve to weaken their
sense of those rights; and by degrees the people are brought to consider the soldiery not only as
their protectors, but as their superiors. The transition from this disposition to that of considering
them masters, is neither remote nor difficult; but it is very difficult to prevail upon a people
under such impressions, to make a bold or effectual resistance to usurpations supported by the
military power.

The kingdom of Great Britain falls within the first description. An insular situation, and a
powerful marine, guarding it in a great measure against the possibility of foreign invasion,
supersede the necessity of a numerous army within the kingdom. A sufficient force to make head
against a sudden descent, till the militia could have time to rally and embody, is all that has been
deemed requisite. No motive of national policy has demanded, nor would public opinion have
tolerated, a larger number of troops upon its domestic establishment. There has been, for a long
time past, little room for the operation of the other causes, which have been enumerated as the
consequences of internal war. This peculiar felicity of situation has, in a great degree,
contributed to preserve the liberty which that country to this day enjoys, in spite of the prevalent



                                                                      46
 
                               


venality and corruption. If, on the contrary, Britain had been situated on the continent, and had
been compelled, as she would have been, by that situation, to make her military establishments at
home coextensive with those of the other great powers of Europe, she, like them, would in all
probability be, at this day, a victim to the absolute power of a single man. It is possible, though
not easy, that the people of that island may be enslaved from other causes; but it cannot be by the
prowess of an army so inconsiderable as that which has been usually kept up within the
kingdom.

If we are wise enough to preserve the Union we may for ages enjoy an advantage similar to that
of an insulated situation. Europe is at a great distance from us. Her colonies in our vicinity will
be likely to continue too much disproportioned in strength to be able to give us any dangerous
annoyance. Extensive military establishments cannot, in this position, be necessary to our
security. But if we should be disunited, and the integral parts should either remain separated, or,
which is most probable, should be thrown together into two or three confederacies, we should be,
in a short course of time, in the predicament of the continental powers of Europe — our liberties
would be a prey to the means of defending ourselves against the ambition and jealousy of each
other.

This is an idea not superficial or futile, but solid and weighty. It deserves the most serious and
mature consideration of every prudent and honest man of whatever party. If such men will make
a firm and solemn pause, and meditate dispassionately on the importance of this interesting idea;
if they will contemplate it in all its attitudes, and trace it to all its consequences, they will not
hesitate to part with trivial objections to a Constitution, the rejection of which would in all
probability put a final period to the Union. The airy phantoms that flit before the distempered
imaginations of some of its adversaries would quickly give place to the more substantial forms of
dangers, real, certain, and formidable.




                                                                   47
 
                              



Federalist No. 9 - The Utility of the Union as a Safeguard Against
Domestic Faction and Insurrection
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, November 21, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

A FIRM Union will be of the utmost moment to the peace and liberty of the States, as a barrier
against domestic faction and insurrection. It is impossible to read the history of the petty
republics of Greece and Italy without feeling sensations of horror and disgust at the distractions
with which they were continually agitated, and at the rapid succession of revolutions by which
they were kept in a state of perpetual vibration between the extremes of tyranny and anarchy. If
they exhibit occasional calms, these only serve as short-lived contrast to the furious storms that
are to succeed. If now and then intervals of felicity open to view, we behold them with a mixture
of regret, arising from the reflection that the pleasing scenes before us are soon to be
overwhelmed by the tempestuous waves of sedition and party rage. If momentary rays of glory
break forth from the gloom, while they dazzle us with a transient and fleeting brilliancy, they at
the same time admonish us to lament that the vices of government should pervert the direction
and tarnish the lustre of those bright talents and exalted endowments for which the favored soils
that produced them have been so justly celebrated.

From the disorders that disfigure the annals of those republics the advocates of despotism have
drawn arguments, not only against the forms of republican government, but against the very
principles of civil liberty. They have decried all free government as inconsistent with the order of
society, and have indulged themselves in malicious exultation over its friends and partisans.
Happily for mankind, stupendous fabrics reared on the basis of liberty, which have flourished for
ages, have, in a few glorious instances, refuted their gloomy sophisms. And, I trust, America will
be the broad and solid foundation of other edifices, not less magnificent, which will be equally
permanent monuments of their errors.

But it is not to be denied that the portraits they have sketched of republican government were too
just copies of the originals from which they were taken. If it had been found impracticable to
have devised models of a more perfect structure, the enlightened friends to liberty would have
been obliged to abandon the cause of that species of government as indefensible. The science of
politics, however, like most other sciences, has received great improvement. The efficacy of
various principles is now well understood, which were either not known at all, or imperfectly
known to the ancients. The regular distribution of power into distinct departments; the
introduction of legislative balances and checks; the institution of courts composed of judges
holding their offices during good behavior; the representation of the people in the legislature by
deputies of their own election: these are wholly new discoveries, or have made their principal
progress towards perfection in modern times. They are means, and powerful means, by which the


                                                                  48
 
                              


excellences of republican government may be retained and its imperfections lessened or avoided.
To this catalogue of circumstances that tend to the amelioration of popular systems of civil
government, I shall venture, however novel it may appear to some, to add one more, on a
principle which has been made the foundation of an objection to the new Constitution; I mean
the ENLARGEMENT of the ORBIT within which such systems are to revolve, either in respect
to the dimensions of a single State or to the consolidation of several smaller States into one great
Confederacy. The latter is that which immediately concerns the object under consideration. It
will, however, be of use to examine the principle in its application to a single State, which shall
be attended to in another place.

The utility of a Confederacy, as well to suppress faction and to guard the internal tranquillity of
States, as to increase their external force and security, is in reality not a new idea. It has been
practiced upon in different countries and ages, and has received the sanction of the most
approved writers on the subject of politics. The opponents of the plan proposed have, with great
assiduity, cited and circulated the observations of Montesquieu on the necessity of a contracted
territory for a republican government. But they seem not to have been apprised of the sentiments
of that great man expressed in another part of his work, nor to have adverted to the consequences
of the principle to which they subscribe with such ready acquiescence.

When Montesquieu recommends a small extent for republics, the standards he had in view were
of dimensions far short of the limits of almost every one of these States. Neither Virginia,
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina, nor Georgia can by any means be
compared with the models from which he reasoned and to which the terms of his description
apply. If we therefore take his ideas on this point as the criterion of truth, we shall be driven to
the alternative either of taking refuge at once in the arms of monarchy, or of splitting ourselves
into an infinity of little, jealous, clashing, tumultuous commonwealths, the wretched nurseries of
unceasing discord, and the miserable objects of universal pity or contempt. Some of the writers
who have come forward on the other side of the question seem to have been aware of the
dilemma; and have even been bold enough to hint at the division of the larger States as a
desirable thing. Such an infatuated policy, such a desperate expedient, might, by the
multiplication of petty offices, answer the views of men who possess not qualifications to extend
their influence beyond the narrow circles of personal intrigue, but it could never promote the
greatness or happiness of the people of America.

Referring the examination of the principle itself to another place, as has been already mentioned,
it will be sufficient to remark here that, in the sense of the author who has been most
emphatically quoted upon the occasion, it would only dictate a reduction of the SIZE of the more
considerable MEMBERS of the Union, but would not militate against their being all
comprehended in one confederate government. And this is the true question, in the discussion of
which we are at present interested.

So far are the suggestions of Montesquieu from standing in opposition to a general Union of the
States, that he explicitly treats of a CONFEDERATE REPUBLIC as the expedient for extending



                                                                  49
 
                                


the sphere of popular government, and reconciling the advantages of monarchy with those of
republicanism.

"It is very probable," (says he) "that mankind would have been obliged at length to live
constantly under the government of a SINGLE PERSON, had they not contrived a kind of
constitution that has all the internal advantages of a republican, together with the external force
of a monarchical government. I mean a CONFEDERATE REPUBLIC.

"This form of government is a convention by which several smaller states agree to become
members of a larger one, which they intend to form. It is a kind of assemblage of societies that
constitute a new one, capable of increasing, by means of new associations, till they arrive to such
a degree of power as to be able to provide for the security of the united body.

"A republic of this kind, able to withstand an external force, may support itself without any
internal corruptions. The form of this society prevents all manner of inconveniences.

"If a single member should attempt to usurp the supreme authority, he could not be supposed to
have an equal authority and credit in all the confederate states. Were he to have too great
influence over one, this would alarm the rest. Were he to subdue a part, that which would still
remain free might oppose him with forces independent of those which he had usurped and
overpower him before he could be settled in his usurpation.

"Should a popular insurrection happen in one of the confederate states the others are able to quell
it. Should abuses creep into one part, they are reformed by those that remain sound. The state
may be destroyed on one side, and not on the other; the confederacy may be dissolved, and the
confederates preserve their sovereignty.

"As this government is composed of small republics, it enjoys the internal happiness of each; and
with respect to its external situation, it is possessed, by means of the association, of all the
advantages of large monarchies.

I have thought it proper to quote at length these interesting passages, because they contain a
luminous abridgment of the principal arguments in favor of the Union, and must effectually
remove the false impressions which a misapplication of other parts of the work was calculated to
make. They have, at the same time, an intimate connection with the more immediate design of
this paper; which is, to illustrate the tendency of the Union to repress domestic faction and
insurrection.

A distinction, more subtle than accurate, has been raised between a confederacy and a
consolidation of the States. The essential characteristic of the first is said to be, the restriction of
its authority to the members in their collective capacities, without reaching to the individuals of
whom they are composed. It is contended that the national council ought to have no concern with
any object of internal administration. An exact equality of suffrage between the members has



                                                                      50
 
                              


also been insisted upon as a leading feature of a confederate government. These positions are, in
the main, arbitrary; they are supported neither by principle nor precedent. It has indeed
happened, that governments of this kind have generally operated in the manner which the
distinction taken notice of, supposes to be inherent in their nature; but there have been in most of
them extensive exceptions to the practice, which serve to prove, as far as example will go, that
there is no absolute rule on the subject. And it will be clearly shown in the course of this
investigation that as far as the principle contended for has prevailed, it has been the cause of
incurable disorder and imbecility in the government.

The definition of a confederate republic seems simply to be “an assemblage of societies,” or an
association of two or more states into one state. The extent, modifications, and objects of the
federal authority are mere matters of discretion. So long as the separate organization of the
members be not abolished; so long as it exists, by a constitutional necessity, for local purposes;
though it should be in perfect subordination to the general authority of the union, it would still
be, in fact and in theory, an association of states, or a confederacy. The proposed Constitution, so
far from implying an abolition of the State governments, makes them constituent parts of the
national sovereignty, by allowing them a direct representation in the Senate, and leaves in their
possession certain exclusive and very important portions of sovereign power. This fully
corresponds, in every rational import of the terms, with the idea of a federal government.

In the Lycian confederacy, which consisted of twenty-three CITIES or republics, the largest were
entitled to three votes in the COMMON COUNCIL, those of the middle class to two, and the
smallest to one. The COMMON COUNCIL had the appointment of all the judges and
magistrates of the respective CITIES. This was certainly the most, delicate species of
interference in their internal administration; for if there be any thing that seems exclusively
appropriated to the local jurisdictions, it is the appointment of their own officers. Yet
Montesquieu, speaking of this association, says: “Were I to give a model of an excellent
Confederate Republic, it would be that of Lycia.” Thus we perceive that the distinctions insisted
upon were not within the contemplation of this enlightened civilian; and we shall be led to
conclude, that they are the novel refinements of an erroneous theory.




                                                                  51
 
                               



Federalist No. 10 - The Utility of the Union as a Safeguard Against
Domestic Faction and Insurrection (continued)
Written by James Madison
Daily Advertiser, November 22, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

AMONG the numerous advantages promised by a well constructed Union, none deserves to be
more accurately developed than its tendency to break and control the violence of faction. The
friend of popular governments never finds himself so much alarmed for their character and fate,
as when he contemplates their propensity to this dangerous vice. He will not fail, therefore, to set
a due value on any plan which, without violating the principles to which he is attached, provides
a proper cure for it. The instability, injustice, and confusion introduced into the public councils,
have, in truth, been the mortal diseases under which popular governments have everywhere
perished; as they continue to be the favorite and fruitful topics from which the adversaries to
liberty derive their most specious declamations. The valuable improvements made by the
American constitutions on the popular models, both ancient and modern, cannot certainly be too
much admired; but it would be an unwarrantable partiality, to contend that they have as
effectually obviated the danger on this side, as was wished and expected. Complaints are
everywhere heard from our most considerate and virtuous citizens, equally the friends of public
and private faith, and of public and personal liberty, that our governments are too unstable, that
the public good is disregarded in the conflicts of rival parties, and that measures are too often
decided, not according to the rules of justice and the rights of the minor party, but by the superior
force of an interested and overbearing majority. However anxiously we may wish that these
complaints had no foundation, the evidence, of known facts will not permit us to deny that they
are in some degree true. It will be found, indeed, on a candid review of our situation, that some
of the distresses under which we labor have been erroneously charged on the operation of our
governments; but it will be found, at the same time, that other causes will not alone account for
many of our heaviest misfortunes; and, particularly, for that prevailing and increasing distrust of
public engagements, and alarm for private rights, which are echoed from one end of the
continent to the other. These must be chiefly, if not wholly, effects of the unsteadiness and
injustice with which a factious spirit has tainted our public administrations.

By a faction, I understand a number of citizens, whether amounting to a majority or a minority of
the whole, who are united and actuated by some common impulse of passion, or of interest,
adversed to the rights of other citizens, or to the permanent and aggregate interests of the
community.

There are two methods of curing the mischiefs of faction: the one, by removing its causes; the
other, by controlling its effects.



                                                                   52
 
                                


There are again two methods of removing the causes of faction: the one, by destroying the liberty
which is essential to its existence; the other, by giving to every citizen the same opinions, the
same passions, and the same interests.

It could never be more truly said than of the first remedy, that it was worse than the disease.
Liberty is to faction what air is to fire, an aliment without which it instantly expires. But it could
not be less folly to abolish liberty, which is essential to political life, because it nourishes faction,
than it would be to wish the annihilation of air, which is essential to animal life, because it
imparts to fire its destructive agency.

The second expedient is as impracticable as the first would be unwise. As long as the reason of
man continues fallible, and he is at liberty to exercise it, different opinions will be formed. As
long as the connection subsists between his reason and his self-love, his opinions and his
passions will have a reciprocal influence on each other; and the former will be objects to which
the latter will attach themselves. The diversity in the faculties of men, from which the rights of
property originate, is not less an insuperable obstacle to a uniformity of interests. The protection
of these faculties is the first object of government. From the protection of different and unequal
faculties of acquiring property, the possession of different degrees and kinds of property
immediately results; and from the influence of these on the sentiments and views of the
respective proprietors, ensues a division of the society into different interests and parties.

The latent causes of faction are thus sown in the nature of man; and we see them everywhere
brought into different degrees of activity, according to the different circumstances of civil
society. A zeal for different opinions concerning religion, concerning government, and many
other points, as well of speculation as of practice; an attachment to different leaders ambitiously
contending for pre-eminence and power; or to persons of other descriptions whose fortunes have
been interesting to the human passions, have, in turn, divided mankind into parties, inflamed
them with mutual animosity, and rendered them much more disposed to vex and oppress each
other than to co-operate for their common good. So strong is this propensity of mankind to fall
into mutual animosities, that where no substantial occasion presents itself, the most frivolous and
fanciful distinctions have been sufficient to kindle their unfriendly passions and excite their most
violent conflicts. But the most common and durable source of factions has been the various and
unequal distribution of property. Those who hold and those who are without property have ever
formed distinct interests in society. Those who are creditors, and those who are debtors, fall
under a like discrimination. A landed interest, a manufacturing interest, a mercantile interest, a
moneyed interest, with many lesser interests, grow up of necessity in civilized nations, and
divide them into different classes, actuated by different sentiments and views. The regulation of
these various and interfering interests forms the principal task of modern legislation, and
involves the spirit of party and faction in the necessary and ordinary operations of the
government.

No man is allowed to be a judge in his own cause, because his interest would certainly bias his
judgment, and, not improbably, corrupt his integrity. With equal, nay with greater reason, a body



                                                                      53
 
                               


of men are unfit to be both judges and parties at the same time; yet what are many of the most
important acts of legislation, but so many judicial determinations, not indeed concerning the
rights of single persons, but concerning the rights of large bodies of citizens? And what are the
different classes of legislators but advocates and parties to the causes which they determine? Is a
law proposed concerning private debts? It is a question to which the creditors are parties on one
side and the debtors on the other. Justice ought to hold the balance between them. Yet the parties
are, and must be, themselves the judges; and the most numerous party, or, in other words, the
most powerful faction must be expected to prevail. Shall domestic manufactures be encouraged,
and in what degree, by restrictions on foreign manufactures? are questions which would be
differently decided by the landed and the manufacturing classes, and probably by neither with a
sole regard to justice and the public good. The apportionment of taxes on the various descriptions
of property is an act which seems to require the most exact impartiality; yet there is, perhaps, no
legislative act in which greater opportunity and temptation are given to a predominant party to
trample on the rules of justice. Every shilling with which they overburden the inferior number, is
a shilling saved to their own pockets.

It is in vain to say that enlightened statesmen will be able to adjust these clashing interests, and
render them all subservient to the public good. Enlightened statesmen will not always be at the
helm. Nor, in many cases, can such an adjustment be made at all without taking into view
indirect and remote considerations, which will rarely prevail over the immediate interest which
one party may find in disregarding the rights of another or the good of the whole.

The inference to which we are brought is, that the causes of faction cannot be removed, and that
relief is only to be sought in the means of controlling its effects.

If a faction consists of less than a majority, relief is supplied by the republican principle, which
enables the majority to defeat its sinister views by regular vote. It may clog the administration, it
may convulse the society; but it will be unable to execute and mask its violence under the forms
of the Constitution. When a majority is included in a faction, the form of popular government, on
the other hand, enables it to sacrifice to its ruling passion or interest both the public good and the
rights of other citizens. To secure the public good and private rights against the danger of such a
faction, and at the same time to preserve the spirit and the form of popular government, is then
the great object to which our inquiries are directed. Let me add that it is the great desideratum by
which this form of government can be rescued from the opprobrium under which it has so long
labored, and be recommended to the esteem and adoption of mankind.

By what means is this object attainable? Evidently by one of two only. Either the existence of the
same passion or interest in a majority at the same time must be prevented, or the majority, having
such coexistent passion or interest, must be rendered, by their number and local situation, unable
to concert and carry into effect schemes of oppression. If the impulse and the opportunity be
suffered to coincide, we well know that neither moral nor religious motives can be relied on as
an adequate control. They are not found to be such on the injustice and violence of individuals,




                                                                    54
 
                               


and lose their efficacy in proportion to the number combined together, that is, in proportion as
their efficacy becomes needful.

From this view of the subject it may be concluded that a pure democracy, by which I mean a
society consisting of a small number of citizens, who assemble and administer the government in
person, can admit of no cure for the mischiefs of faction. A common passion or interest will, in
almost every case, be felt by a majority of the whole; a communication and concert result from
the form of government itself; and there is nothing to check the inducements to sacrifice the
weaker party or an obnoxious individual. Hence it is that such democracies have ever been
spectacles of turbulence and contention; have ever been found incompatible with personal
security or the rights of property; and have in general been as short in their lives as they have
been violent in their deaths. Theoretic politicians, who have patronized this species of
government, have erroneously supposed that by reducing mankind to a perfect equality in their
political rights, they would, at the same time, be perfectly equalized and assimilated in their
possessions, their opinions, and their passions.

A republic, by which I mean a government in which the scheme of representation takes place,
opens a different prospect, and promises the cure for which we are seeking. Let us examine the
points in which it varies from pure democracy, and we shall comprehend both the nature of the
cure and the efficacy which it must derive from the Union.

The two great points of difference between a democracy and a republic are: first, the delegation
of the government, in the latter, to a small number of citizens elected by the rest; secondly, the
greater number of citizens, and greater sphere of country, over which the latter may be extended.

The effect of the first difference is, on the one hand, to refine and enlarge the public views, by
passing them through the medium of a chosen body of citizens, whose wisdom may best discern
the true interest of their country, and whose patriotism and love of justice will be least likely to
sacrifice it to temporary or partial considerations. Under such a regulation, it may well happen
that the public voice, pronounced by the representatives of the people, will be more consonant to
the public good than if pronounced by the people themselves, convened for the purpose. On the
other hand, the effect may be inverted. Men of factious tempers, of local prejudices, or of sinister
designs, may, by intrigue, by corruption, or by other means, first obtain the suffrages, and then
betray the interests, of the people. The question resulting is, whether small or extensive republics
are more favorable to the election of proper guardians of the public weal; and it is clearly
decided in favor of the latter by two obvious considerations:

In the first place, it is to be remarked that, however small the republic may be, the representatives
must be raised to a certain number, in order to guard against the cabals of a few; and that,
however large it may be, they must be limited to a certain number, in order to guard against the
confusion of a multitude. Hence, the number of representatives in the two cases not being in
proportion to that of the two constituents, and being proportionally greater in the small republic,
it follows that, if the proportion of fit characters be not less in the large than in the small



                                                                   55
 
                               


republic, the former will present a greater option, and consequently a greater probability of a fit
choice.

In the next place, as each representative will be chosen by a greater number of citizens in the
large than in the small republic, it will be more difficult for unworthy candidates to practice with
success the vicious arts by which elections are too often carried; and the suffrages of the people
being more free, will be more likely to centre in men who possess the most attractive merit and
the most diffusive and established characters.

It must be confessed that in this, as in most other cases, there is a mean, on both sides of which
inconveniences will be found to lie. By enlarging too much the number of electors, you render
the representatives too little acquainted with all their local circumstances and lesser interests; as
by reducing it too much, you render him unduly attached to these, and too little fit to
comprehend and pursue great and national objects. The federal Constitution forms a happy
combination in this respect; the great and aggregate interests being referred to the national, the
local and particular to the State legislatures.

The other point of difference is, the greater number of citizens and extent of territory which may
be brought within the compass of republican than of democratic government; and it is this
circumstance principally which renders factious combinations less to be dreaded in the former
than in the latter. The smaller the society, the fewer probably will be the distinct parties and
interests composing it; the fewer the distinct parties and interests, the more frequently will a
majority be found of the same party; and the smaller the number of individuals composing a
majority, and the smaller the compass within which they are placed, the more easily will they
concert and execute their plans of oppression. Extend the sphere, and you take in a greater
variety of parties and interests; you make it less probable that a majority of the whole will have a
common motive to invade the rights of other citizens; or if such a common motive exists, it will
be more difficult for all who feel it to discover their own strength, and to act in unison with each
other. Besides other impediments, it may be remarked that, where there is a consciousness of
unjust or dishonorable purposes, communication is always checked by distrust in proportion to
the number whose concurrence is necessary.

Hence, it clearly appears, that the same advantage which a republic has over a democracy, in
controlling the effects of faction, is enjoyed by a large over a small republic, — is enjoyed by the
Union over the States composing it. Does the advantage consist in the substitution of
representatives whose enlightened views and virtuous sentiments render them superior to local
prejudices and schemes of injustice? It will not be denied that the representation of the Union
will be most likely to possess these requisite endowments. Does it consist in the greater security
afforded by a greater variety of parties, against the event of any one party being able to
outnumber and oppress the rest? In an equal degree does the increased variety of parties
comprised within the Union, increase this security. Does it, in fine, consist in the greater
obstacles opposed to the concert and accomplishment of the secret wishes of an unjust and
interested majority? Here, again, the extent of the Union gives it the most palpable advantage.



                                                                    56
 
                              



The influence of factious leaders may kindle a flame within their particular States, but will be
unable to spread a general conflagration through the other States. A religious sect may
degenerate into a political faction in a part of the Confederacy; but the variety of sects dispersed
over the entire face of it must secure the national councils against any danger from that source. A
rage for paper money, for an abolition of debts, for an equal division of property, or for any other
improper or wicked project, will be less apt to pervade the whole body of the Union than a
particular member of it; in the same proportion as such a malady is more likely to taint a
particular county or district, than an entire State.

In the extent and proper structure of the Union, therefore, we behold a republican remedy for the
diseases most incident to republican government. And according to the degree of pleasure and
pride we feel in being republicans, ought to be our zeal in cherishing the spirit and supporting the
character of Federalists.




                                                                  57
 
                               



Federalist No. 11 - The Utility of the Union in Respect to
Commercial Relations and a Navy
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, November 24, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

THE importance of the Union, in a commercial light, is one of those points about which there is
least room to entertain a difference of opinion, and which has, in fact, commanded the most
general assent of men who have any acquaintance with the subject. This applies as well to our
intercourse with foreign countries as with each other.

There are appearances to authorize a supposition that the adventurous spirit, which distinguishes
the commercial character of America, has already excited uneasy sensations in several of the
maritime powers of Europe. They seem to be apprehensive of our too great interference in that
carrying trade, which is the support of their navigation and the foundation of their naval strength.
Those of them which have colonies in America look forward to what this country is capable of
becoming, with painful solicitude. They foresee the dangers that may threaten their American
dominions from the neighborhood of States, which have all the dispositions, and would possess
all the means, requisite to the creation of a powerful marine. Impressions of this kind will
naturally indicate the policy of fostering divisions among us, and of depriving us, as far as
possible, of an ACTIVE COMMERCE in our own bottoms. This would answer the threefold
purpose of preventing our interference in their navigation, of monopolizing the profits of our
trade, and of clipping the wings by which we might soar to a dangerous greatness. Did not
prudence forbid the detail, it would not be difficult to trace, by facts, the workings of this policy
to the cabinets of ministers.

If we continue united, we may counteract a policy so unfriendly to our prosperity in a variety of
ways. By prohibitory regulations, extending, at the same time, throughout the States, we may
oblige foreign countries to bid against each other, for the privileges of our markets. This
assertion will not appear chimerical to those who are able to appreciate the importance of the
markets of three millions of people — increasing in rapid progression, for the most part
exclusively addicted to agriculture, and likely from local circumstances to remain so — to any
manufacturing nation; and the immense difference there would be to the trade and navigation of
such a nation, between a direct communication in its own ships, and an indirect conveyance of its
products and returns, to and from America, in the ships of another country. Suppose, for
instance, we had a government in America, capable of excluding Great Britain (with whom we
have at present no treaty of commerce) from all our ports; what would be the probable operation
of this step upon her politics? Would it not enable us to negotiate, with the fairest prospect of
success, for commercial privileges of the most valuable and extensive kind, in the dominions of
that kingdom? When these questions have been asked, upon other occasions, they have received


                                                                   58
 
                              


a plausible, but not a solid or satisfactory answer. It has been said that prohibitions on our part
would produce no change in the system of Britain, because she could prosecute her trade with us
through the medium of the Dutch, who would be her immediate customers and paymasters for
those articles which were wanted for the supply of our markets. But would not her navigation be
materially injured by the loss of the important advantage of being her own carrier in that trade?
Would not the principal part of its profits be intercepted by the Dutch, as a compensation for
their agency and risk? Would not the mere circumstance of freight occasion a considerable
deduction? Would not so circuitous an intercourse facilitate the competitions of other nations, by
enhancing the price of British commodities in our markets, and by transferring to other hands the
management of this interesting branch of the British commerce?

A mature consideration of the objects suggested by these questions will justify a belief that the
real disadvantages to Britain from such a state of things, conspiring with the pre-possessions of a
great part of the nation in favor of the American trade, and with the importunities of the West
India islands, would produce a relaxation in her present system, and would let us into the
enjoyment of privileges in the markets of those islands elsewhere, from which our trade would
derive the most substantial benefits. Such a point gained from the British government, and which
could not be expected without an equivalent in exemptions and immunities in our markets,
would be likely to have a correspondent effect on the conduct of other nations, who would not be
inclined to see themselves altogether supplanted in our trade.

A further resource for influencing the conduct of European nations toward us, in this respect,
would arise from the establishment of a federal navy. There can be no doubt that the continuance
of the Union under an efficient government would put it in our power, at a period not very
distant, to create a navy which, if it could not vie with those of the great maritime powers, would
at least be of respectable weight if thrown into the scale of either of two contending parties. This
would be more peculiarly the case in relation to operations in the West Indies. A few ships of the
line, sent opportunely to the reinforcement of either side, would often be sufficient to decide the
fate of a campaign, on the event of which interests of the greatest magnitude were suspended.
Our position is, in this respect, a most commanding one. And if to this consideration we add that
of the usefulness of supplies from this country, in the prosecution of military operations in the
West Indies, it will readily be perceived that a situation so favorable would enable us to bargain
with great advantage for commercial privileges. A price would be set not only upon our
friendship, but upon our neutrality. By a steady adherence to the Union we may hope, erelong, to
become the arbiter of Europe in America, and to be able to incline the balance of European
competitions in this part of the world as our interest may dictate.

But in the reverse of this eligible situation, we shall discover that the rivalships of the parts
would make them checks upon each other, and would frustrate all the tempting advantages which
nature has kindly placed within our reach. In a state so insignificant our commerce would be a
prey to the wanton intermeddlings of all nations at war with each other; who, having nothing to
fear from us, would with little scruple or remorse, supply their wants by depredations on our
property as often as it fell in their way. The rights of neutrality will only be respected when they



                                                                  59
 
                               


are defended by an adequate power. A nation, despicable by its weakness, forfeits even the
privilege of being neutral.

Under a vigorous national government, the natural strength and resources of the country, directed
to a common interest, would baffle all the combinations of European jealousy to restrain our
growth. This situation would even take away the motive to such combinations, by inducing an
impracticability of success. An active commerce, an extensive navigation, and a flourishing
marine would then be the offspring of moral and physical necessity. We might defy the little arts
of the little politicians to control or vary the irresistible and unchangeable course of nature.

But in a state of disunion, these combinations might exist and might operate with success. It
would be in the power of the maritime nations, availing themselves of our universal impotence,
to prescribe the conditions of our political existence; and as they have a common interest in
being our carriers, and still more in preventing our becoming theirs, they would in all probability
combine to embarrass our navigation in such a manner as would in effect destroy it, and confine
us to a PASSIVE COMMERCE. We should then be compelled to content ourselves with the first
price of our commodities, and to see the profits of our trade snatched from us to enrich our
enemies and persecutors. That unequaled spirit of enterprise, which signalizes the genius of the
American merchants and navigators, and which is in itself an inexhaustible mine of national
wealth, would be stifled and lost, and poverty and disgrace would overspread a country which,
with wisdom, might make herself the admiration and envy of the world.

There are rights of great moment to the trade of America which are rights of the Union — I
allude to the fisheries, to the navigation of the Western lakes, and to that of the Mississippi. The
dissolution of the Confederacy would give room for delicate questions concerning the future
existence of these rights; which the interest of more powerful partners would hardly fail to solve
to our disadvantage. The disposition of Spain with regard to the Mississippi needs no comment.
France and Britain are concerned with us in the fisheries, and view them as of the utmost
moment to their navigation. They, of course, would hardly remain long indifferent to that
decided mastery, of which experience has shown us to be possessed in this valuable branch of
traffic, and by which we are able to undersell those nations in their own markets. What more
natural than that they should be disposed to exclude from the lists such dangerous competitors?

This branch of trade ought not to be considered as a partial benefit. All the navigating States
may, in different degrees, advantageously participate in it, and under circumstances of a greater
extension of mercantile capital, would not be unlikely to do it. As a nursery of seamen, it now is,
or when time shall have more nearly assimilated the principles of navigation in the several
States, will become, a universal resource. To the establishment of a navy, it must be
indispensable.

To this great national object, a NAVY, union will contribute in various ways. Every institution
will grow and flourish in proportion to the quantity and extent of the means concentred towards
its formation and support. A navy of the United States, as it would embrace the resources of all,



                                                                   60
 
                               


is an object far less remote than a navy of any single State or partial confederacy, which would
only embrace the resources of a single part. It happens, indeed, that different portions of
confederated America possess each some peculiar advantage for this essential establishment. The
more southern States furnish in greater abundance certain kinds of naval stores — tar, pitch, and
turpentine. Their wood for the construction of ships is also of a more solid and lasting texture.
The difference in the duration of the ships of which the navy might be composed, if chiefly
constructed of Southern wood, would be of signal importance, either in the view of naval
strength or of national economy. Some of the Southern and of the Middle States yield a greater
plenty of iron, and of better quality. Seamen must chiefly be drawn from the Northern hive. The
necessity of naval protection to external or maritime commerce does not require a particular
elucidation, no more than the conduciveness of that species of commerce to the prosperity of a
navy.

An unrestrained intercourse between the States themselves will advance the trade of each by an
interchange of their respective productions, not only for the supply of reciprocal wants at home,
but for exportation to foreign markets. The veins of commerce in every part will be replenished,
and will acquire additional motion and vigor from a free circulation of the commodities of every
part. Commercial enterprise will have much greater scope, from the diversity in the productions
of different States. When the staple of one fails from a bad harvest or unproductive crop, it can
call to its aid the staple of another. The variety, not less than the value, of products for
exportation contributes to the activity of foreign commerce. It can be conducted upon much
better terms with a large number of materials of a given value than with a small number of
materials of the same value; arising from the competitions of trade and from the fluctations of
markets. Particular articles may be in great demand at certain periods, and unsalable at others;
but if there be a variety of articles, it can scarcely happen that they should all be at one time in
the latter predicament, and on this account the operations of the merchant would be less liable to
any considerable obstruction or stagnation. The speculative trader will at once perceive the force
of these observations, and will acknowledge that the aggregate balance of the commerce of the
United States would bid fair to be much more favorable than that of the thirteen States without
union or with partial unions.

It may perhaps be replied to this, that whether the States are united or disunited, there would still
be an intimate intercourse between them which would answer the same ends; this intercourse
would be fettered, interrupted, and narrowed by a multiplicity of causes, which in the course of
these papers have been amply detailed. A unity of commercial, as well as political, interests, can
only result from a unity of government.

There are other points of view in which this subject might be placed, of a striking and animating
kind. But they would lead us too far into the regions of futurity, and would involve topics not
proper for a newspaper discussion. I shall briefly observe, that our situation invites and our
interests prompt us to aim at an ascendant in the system of American affairs. The world may
politically, as well as geographically, be divided into four parts, each having a distinct set of
interests. Unhappily for the other three, Europe, by her arms and by her negotiations, by force



                                                                   61
 
                               


and by fraud, has, in different degrees, extended her dominion over them all. Africa, Asia, and
America, have successively felt her domination. The superiority she has long maintained has
tempted her to plume herself as the Mistress of the World, and to consider the rest of mankind as
created for her benefit. Men admired as profound philosophers have, in direct terms, attributed to
her inhabitants a physical superiority, and have gravely asserted that all animals, and with them
the human species, degenerate in America — that even dogs cease to bark after having breathed
awhile in our atmosphere.1 Facts have too long supported these arrogant pretensions of the
Europeans. It belongs to us to vindicate the honor of the human race, and to teach that assuming
brother, moderation. Union will enable us to do it. Disunion will will add another victim to his
triumphs. Let Americans disdain to be the instruments of European greatness! Let the thirteen
States, bound together in a strict and indissoluble Union, concur in erecting one great American
system, superior to the control of all transatlantic force or influence, and able to dictate the terms
of the connection between the old and the new world!




                                                                    62
 
                               



Federalist No. 12 - The Utility of the Union In Respect to Revenue
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Tuesday, November 27, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

THE effects of Union upon the commercial prosperity of the States have been sufficiently
delineated. Its tendency to promote the interests of revenue will be the subject of our present
inquiry.

The prosperity of commerce is now perceived and acknowledged by all enlightened statesmen to
be the most useful as well as the most productive source of national wealth, and has accordingly
become a primary object of their political cares. By multiplying the means of gratification, by
promoting the introduction and circulation of the precious metals, those darling objects of human
avarice and enterprise, it serves to vivify and invigorate the channels of industry, and to make
them flow with greater activity and copiousness. The assiduous merchant, the laborious
husbandman, the active mechanic, and the industrious manufacturer, — all orders of men, look
forward with eager expectation and growing alacrity to this pleasing reward of their toils. The
often-agitated question between agriculture and commerce has, from indubitable experience,
received a decision which has silenced the rivalship that once subsisted between them, and has
proved, to the satisfaction of their friends, that their interests are intimately blended and
interwoven. It has been found in various countries that, in proportion as commerce has
flourished, land has risen in value. And how could it have happened otherwise? Could that which
procures a freer vent for the products of the earth, which furnishes new incitements to the
cultivation of land, which is the most powerful instrument in increasing the quantity of money in
a state — could that, in fine, which is the faithful handmaid of labor and industry, in every shape,
fail to augment that article, which is the prolific parent of far the greatest part of the objects upon
which they are exerted? It is astonishing that so simple a truth should ever have had an
adversary; and it is one, among a multitude of proofs, how apt a spirit of ill-informed jealousy, or
of too great abstraction and refinement, is to lead men astray from the plainest truths of reason
and conviction.

The ability of a country to pay taxes must always be proportioned, in a great degree, to the
quantity of money in circulation, and to the celerity with which it circulates. Commerce,
contributing to both these objects, must of necessity render the payment of taxes easier, and
facilitate the requisite supplies to the treasury. The hereditary dominions of the Emperor of
Germany contain a great extent of fertile, cultivated, and populous territory, a large proportion of
which is situated in mild and luxuriant climates. In some parts of this territory are to be found the
best gold and silver mines in Europe. And yet, from the want of the fostering influence of
commerce, that monarch can boast but slender revenues. He has several times been compelled to
owe obligations to the pecuniary succors of other nations for the preservation of his essential



                                                                     63
 
                               


interests, and is unable, upon the strength of his own resources, to sustain a long or continued
war.

But it is not in this aspect of the subject alone that Union will be seen to conduce to the purpose
of revenue. There are other points of view, in which its influence will appear more immediate
and decisive. It is evident from the state of the country, from the habits of the people, from the
experience we have had on the point itself, that it is impracticable to raise any very considerable
sums by direct taxation. Tax laws have in vain been multiplied; new methods to enforce the
collection have in vain been tried; the public expectation has been uniformly disappointed, and
the treasuries of the States have remained empty. The popular system of administration inherent
in the nature of popular government, coinciding with the real scarcity of money incident to a
languid and mutilated state of trade, has hitherto defeated every experiment for extensive
collections, and has at length taught the different legislatures the folly of attempting them.

No person acquainted with what happens in other countries will be surprised at this
circumstance. In so opulent a nation as that of Britain, where direct taxes from superior wealth
must be much more tolerable, and, from the vigor of the government, much more practicable,
than in America, far the greatest part of the national revenue is derived from taxes of the indirect
kind, from imposts, and from excises. Duties on imported articles form a large branch of this
latter description.

In America, it is evident that we must a long time depend for the means of revenue chiefly on
such duties. In most parts of it, excises must be confined within a narrow compass. The genius of
the people will ill brook the inquisitive and peremptory spirit of excise laws. The pockets of the
farmers, on the other hand, will reluctantly yield but scanty supplies, in the unwelcome shape of
impositions on their houses and lands; and personal property is too precarious and invisible a
fund to be laid hold of in any other way than by the inperceptible agency of taxes on
consumption.

If these remarks have any foundation, that state of things which will best enable us to improve
and extend so valuable a resource must be best adapted to our political welfare. And it cannot
admit of a serious doubt, that this state of things must rest on the basis of a general Union. As far
as this would be conducive to the interests of commerce, so far it must tend to the extension of
the revenue to be drawn from that source. As far as it would contribute to rendering regulations
for the collection of the duties more simple and efficacious, so far it must serve to answer the
purposes of making the same rate of duties more productive, and of putting it into the power of
the government to increase the rate without prejudice to trade.

The relative situation of these States; the number of rivers with which they are intersected, and of
bays that wash there shores; the facility of communication in every direction; the affinity of
language and manners; the familiar habits of intercourse; — all these are circumstances that
would conspire to render an illicit trade between them a matter of little difficulty, and would
insure frequent evasions of the commercial regulations of each other. The separate States or



                                                                   64
 
                               


confederacies would be necessitated by mutual jealousy to avoid the temptations to that kind of
trade by the lowness of their duties. The temper of our governments, for a long time to come,
would not permit those rigorous precautions by which the European nations guard the avenues
into their respective countries, as well by land as by water; and which, even there, are found
insufficient obstacles to the adventurous stratagems of avarice.

In France, there is an army of patrols (as they are called) constantly employed to secure their
fiscal regulations against the inroads of the dealers in contraband trade. Mr. Neckar computes the
number of these patrols at upwards of twenty thousand. This shows the immense difficulty in
preventing that species of traffic, where there is an inland communication, and places in a strong
light the disadvantages with which the collection of duties in this country would be encumbered,
if by disunion the States should be placed in a situation, with respect to each other, resembling
that of France with respect to her neighbors. The arbitrary and vexatious powers with which the
patrols are necessarily armed, would be intolerable in a free country.

If, on the contrary, there be but one government pervading all the States, there will be, as to the
principal part of our commerce, but ONE SIDE to guard — the ATLANTIC COAST. Vessels
arriving directly from foreign countries, laden with valuable cargoes, would rarely choose to
hazard themselves to the complicated and critical perils which would attend attempts to unlade
prior to their coming into port. They would have to dread both the dangers of the coast, and of
detection, as well after as before their arrival at the places of their final destination. An ordinary
degree of vigilance would be competent to the prevention of any material infractions upon the
rights of the revenue. A few armed vessels, judiciously stationed at the entrances of our ports,
might at a small expense be made useful sentinels of the laws. And the government having the
same interest to provide against violations everywhere, the co-operation of its measures in each
State would have a powerful tendency to render them effectual. Here also we should preserve by
Union, an advantage which nature holds out to us, and which would be relinquished by
separation. The United States lie at a great distance from Europe, and at a considerable distance
from all other places with which they would have extensive connections of foreign trade. The
passage from them to us, in a few hours, or in a single night, as between the coasts of France and
Britain, and of other neighboring nations, would be impracticable. This is a prodigious security
against a direct contraband with foreign countries; but a circuitous contraband to one State,
through the medium of another, would be both easy and safe. The difference between a direct
importation from abroad, and an indirect importation through the channel of a neighboring State,
in small parcels, according to time and opportunity, with the additional facilities of inland
communication, must be palpable to every man of discernment.

It is therefore evident, that one national government would be able, at much less expense, to
extend the duties on imports, beyond comparison, further than would be practicable to the States
separately, or to any partial confederacies. Hitherto, I believe, it may safely be asserted, that
these duties have not upon an average exceeded in any State three per cent. In France they are
estimated to be about fifteen per cent., and in Britain they exceed this proportion.1 There seems
to be nothing to hinder their being increased in this country to at least treble their present



                                                                    65
 
                               


amount. The single article of ardent spirits, under federal regulation, might be made to furnish a
considerable revenue. Upon a ratio to the importation into this State, the whole quantity imported
into the United States may be estimated at four millions of gallons; which, at a shilling per
gallon, would produce two hundred thousand pounds. That article would well bear this rate of
duty; and if it should tend to diminish the consumption of it, such an effect would be equally
favorable to the agriculture, to the economy, to the morals, and to the health of the society. There
is, perhaps, nothing so much a subject of national extravagance as these spirits.

What will be the consequence, if we are not able to avail ourselves of the resource in question in
its full extent? A nation cannot long exist without revenues. Destitute of this essential support, it
must resign its independence, and sink into the degraded condition of a province. This is an
extremity to which no government will of choice accede. Revenue, therefore, must be had at all
events. In this country, if the principal part be not drawn from commerce, it must fall with
oppressive weight upon land. It has been already intimated that excises, in their true
signification, are too little in unison with the feelings of the people, to admit of great use being
made of that mode of taxation; nor, indeed, in the States where almost the sole employment is
agriculture, are the objects proper for excise sufficiently numerous to permit very ample
collections in that way. Personal estate (as has been before remarked), from the difficulty in
tracing it, cannot be subjected to large contributions, by any other means than by taxes on
consumption. In populous cities, it may be enough the subject of conjecture, to occasion the
oppression of individuals, without much aggregate benefit to the State; but beyond these circles,
it must, in a great measure, escape the eye and the hand of the tax-gatherer. As the necessities of
the State, nevertheless, must be satisfied in some mode or other, the defect of other resources
must throw the principal weight of public burdens on the possessors of land. And as, on the other
hand, the wants of the government can never obtain an adequate supply, unless all the sources of
revenue are open to its demands, the finances of the community, under such embarrassments,
cannot be put into a situation consistent with its respectability or its security. Thus we shall not
even have the consolations of a full treasury, to atone for the oppression of that valuable class of
the citizens who are employed in the cultivation of the soil. But public and private distress will
keep pace with each other in gloomy concert; and unite in deploring the infatuation of those
counsels which led to disunion.




                                                                   66
 
                              



Federalist No. 13 - Advantage of the Union in Respect to Economy in
Government
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, November 28, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

AS CONNECTED with the subject of revenue, we may with propriety consider that of economy.
The money saved from one object may be usefully applied to another, and there will be so much
the less to be drawn from the pockets of the people. If the States are united under one
government, there will be but one national civil list to support; if they are divided into several
confederacies, there will be as many different national civil lists to be provided for — and each
of them, as to the principal departments, coextensive with that which would be necessary for a
government of the whole. The entire separation of the States into thirteen unconnected
sovereignties is a project too extravagant and too replete with danger to have many advocates.
The ideas of men who speculate upon the dismemberment of the empire seem generally turned
toward three confederacies — one consisting of the four Northern, another of the four Middle,
and a third of the five Southern States. There is little probability that there would be a greater
number. According to this distribution, each confederacy would comprise an extent of territory
larger than that of the kingdom of Great Britain. No well-informed man will suppose that the
affairs of such a confederacy can be properly regulated by a government less comprehensive in
its organs or institutions than that which has been proposed by the convention. When the
dimensions of a State attain to a certain magnitude, it requires the same energy of government
and the same forms of administration which are requisite in one of much greater extent. This idea
admits not of precise demonstration, because there is no rule by which we can measure the
momentum of civil power necessary to the government of any given number of individuals; but
when we consider that the island of Britain, nearly commensurate with each of the supposed
confederacies, contains about eight millions of people, and when we reflect upon the degree of
authority required to direct the passions of so large a society to the public good, we shall see no
reason to doubt that the like portion of power would be sufficient to perform the same task in a
society far more numerous. Civil power, properly organized and exerted, is capable of diffusing
its force to a very great extent; and can, in a manner, reproduce itself in every part of a great
empire by a judicious arrangement of subordinate institutions.

The supposition that each confederacy into which the States would be likely to be divided would
require a government not less comprehensive than the one proposed, will be strengthened by
another supposition, more probable than that which presents us with three confederacies as the
alternative to a general Union. If we attend carefully to geographical and commercial
considerations, in conjunction with the habits and prejudices of the different States, we shall be
led to conclude that in case of disunion they will most naturally league themselves under two
governments. The four Eastern States, from all the causes that form the links of national


                                                                 67
 
                              


sympathy and connection, may with certainty be expected to unite. New York, situated as she is,
would never be unwise enough to oppose a feeble and unsupported flank to the weight of that
confederacy. There are other obvious reasons that would facilitate her accession to it. New Jersey
is too small a State to think of being a frontier, in opposition to this still more powerful
combination; nor do there appear to be any obstacles to her admission into it. Even Pennsylvania
would have strong inducements to join the Northern league. An active foreign commerce, on the
basis of her own navigation, is her true policy, and coincides with the opinions and dispositions
of her citizens. The more Southern States, from various circumstances, may not think themselves
much interested in the encouragement of navigation. They may prefer a system which would
give unlimited scope to all nations to be the carriers as well as the purchasers of their
commodities. Pennsylvania may not choose to confound her interests in a connection so adverse
to her policy. As she must at all events be a frontier, she may deem it most consistent with her
safety to have her exposed side turned towards the weaker power of the Southern, rather than
towards the stronger power of the Northern, Confederacy. This would give her the fairest chance
to avoid being the Flanders of America. Whatever may be the determination of Pennsylvania, if
the Northern Confederacy includes New Jersey, there is no likelihood of more than one
confederacy to the south of that State.

Nothing can be more evident than that the thirteen States will be able to support a national
government better than one half, or one third, or any number less than the whole. This reflection
must have great weight in obviating that objection to the proposed plan, which is founded on the
principle of expense; an objection, however, which, when we come to take a nearer view of it,
will appear in every light to stand on mistaken ground.

If, in addition to the consideration of a plurality of civil lists, we take into view the number of
persons who must necessarily be employed to guard the inland communication between the
different confederacies against illicit trade, and who in time will infallibly spring up out of the
necessities of revenue; and if we also take into view the military establishments which it has
been shown would unavoidably result from the jealousies and conflicts of the several nations into
which the States would be divided, we shall clearly discover that a separation would be not less
injurious to the economy, than to the tranquillity, commerce, revenue, and liberty of every part.




                                                                 68
 
                              



Federalist No. 14 - Objections to the Proposed Constitution From
Extent of Territory Answered
Written by James Madison
New York Packet, November 30, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

WE HAVE seen the necessity of the Union, as our bulwark against foreign danger, as the
conservator of peace among ourselves, as the guardian of our commerce and other common
interests, as the only substitute for those military establishments which have subverted the
liberties of the Old World, and as the proper antidote for the diseases of faction, which have
proved fatal to other popular governments, and of which alarming symptoms have been betrayed
by our own. All that remains, within this branch of our inquiries, is to take notice of an objection
that may be drawn from the great extent of country which the Union embraces. A few
observations on this subject will be the more proper, as it is perceived that the adversaries of the
new Constitution are availing themselves of the prevailing prejudice with regard to the
practicable sphere of republican administration, in order to supply, by imaginary difficulties, the
want of those solid objections which they endeavor in vain to find.

The error which limits republican government to a narrow district has been unfolded and refuted
in preceding papers. I remark here only that it seems to owe its rise and prevalence chiefly to the
confounding of a republic with a democracy, applying to the former reasonings drawn from the
nature of the latter. The true distinction between these forms was also adverted to on a former
occasion. It is, that in a democracy, the people meet and exercise the government in person; in a
republic, they assemble and administer it by their representatives and agents. A democracy,
consequently, will be confined to a small spot. A republic may be extended over a large region.

To this accidental source of the error may be added the artifice of some celebrated authors,
whose writings have had a great share in forming the modern standard of political opinions.
Being subjects either of an absolute or limited monarchy, they have endeavored to heighten the
advantages, or palliate the evils of those forms, by placing in comparison the vices and defects of
the republican, and by citing as specimens of the latter the turbulent democracies of ancient
Greece and modern Italy. Under the confusion of names, it has been an easy task to transfer to a
republic observations applicable to a democracy only; and among others, the observation that it
can never be established but among a small number of people, living within a small compass of
territory.

Such a fallacy may have been the less perceived, as most of the popular governments of antiquity
were of the democratic species; and even in modern Europe, to which we owe the great principle
of representation, no example is seen of a government wholly popular, and founded, at the same
time, wholly on that principle. If Europe has the merit of discovering this great mechanical


                                                                  69
 
                               


power in government, by the simple agency of which the will of the largest political body may be
concentred, and its force directed to any object which the public good requires, America can
claim the merit of making the discovery the basis of unmixed and extensive republics. It is only
to be lamented that any of her citizens should wish to deprive her of the additional merit of
displaying its full efficacy in the establishment of the comprehensive system now under her
consideration.

As the natural limit of a democracy is that distance from the central point which will just permit
the most remote citizens to assemble as often as their public functions demand, and will include
no greater number than can join in those functions; so the natural limit of a republic is that
distance from the centre which will barely allow the representatives to meet as often as may be
necessary for the administration of public affairs. Can it be said that the limits of the United
States exceed this distance? It will not be said by those who recollect that the Atlantic coast is the
longest side of the Union, that during the term of thirteen years, the representatives of the States
have been almost continually assembled, and that the members from the most distant States are
not chargeable with greater intermissions of attendance than those from the States in the
neighborhood of Congress.

That we may form a juster estimate with regard to this interesting subject, let us resort to the
actual dimensions of the Union. The limits, as fixed by the treaty of peace, are: on the east the
Atlantic, on the south the latitude of thirty-one degrees, on the west the Mississippi, and on the
north an irregular line running in some instances beyond the forty-fifth degree, in others falling
as low as the forty-second. The southern shore of Lake Erie lies below that latitude. Computing
the distance between the thirty-first and forty-fifth degrees, it amounts to nine hundred and
seventy-three common miles; computing it from thirty-one to forty-two degrees, to seven
hundred and sixty-four miles and a half. Taking the mean for the distance, the amount will be
eight hundred and sixty-eight miles and three-fourths. The mean distance from the Atlantic to the
Mississippi does not probably exceed seven hundred and fifty miles. On a comparison of this
extent with that of several countries in Europe, the practicability of rendering our system
commensurate to it appears to be demonstrable. It is not a great deal larger than Germany, where
a diet representing the whole empire is continually assembled; or than Poland before the late
dismemberment, where another national diet was the depositary of the supreme power. Passing
by France and Spain, we find that in Great Britain, inferior as it may be in size, the
representatives of the northern extremity of the island have as far to travel to the national council
as will be required of those of the most remote parts of the Union.

Favorable as this view of the subject may be, some observations remain which will place it in a
light still more satisfactory.

In the first place it is to be remembered that the general government is not to be charged with the
whole power of making and administering laws. Its jurisdiction is limited to certain enumerated
objects, which concern all the members of the republic, but which are not to be attained by the
separate provisions of any. The subordinate governments, which can extend their care to all those



                                                                   70
 
                               


other subjects which can be separately provided for, will retain their due authority and activity.
Were it proposed by the plan of the convention to abolish the governments of the particular
States, its adversaries would have some ground for their objection; though it would not be
difficult to show that if they were abolished the general government would be compelled, by the
principle of self-preservation, to reinstate them in their proper jurisdiction.

A second observation to be made is that the immediate object of the federal Constitution is to
secure the union of the thirteen primitive States, which we know to be practicable; and to add to
them such other States as may arise in their own bosoms, or in their neighborhoods, which we
cannot doubt to be equally practicable. The arrangements that may be necessary for those angles
and fractions of our territory which lie on our northwestern frontier, must be left to those whom
further discoveries and experience will render more equal to the task.

Let it be remarked, in the third place, that the intercourse throughout the Union will be facilitated
by new improvements. Roads will everywhere be shortened, and kept in better order;
accommodations for travelers will be multiplied and meliorated; an interior navigation on our
eastern side will be opened throughout, or nearly throughout, the whole extent of the thirteen
States. The communication between the Western and Atlantic districts, and between different
parts of each, will be rendered more and more easy by those numerous canals with which the
beneficence of nature has intersected our country, and which art finds it so little difficult to
connect and complete.

A fourth and still more important consideration is, that as almost every State will, on one side or
other, be a frontier, and will thus find, in regard to its safety, an inducement to make some
sacrifices for the sake of the general protection; so the States which lie at the greatest distance
from the heart of the Union, and which, of course, may partake least of the ordinary circulation
of its benefits, will be at the same time immediately contiguous to foreign nations, and will
consequently stand, on particular occasions, in greatest need of its strength and resources. It may
be inconvenient for Georgia, or the States forming our western or northeastern borders, to send
their representatives to the seat of government; but they would find it more so to struggle alone
against an invading enemy, or even to support alone the whole expense of those precautions
which may be dictated by the neighborhood of continual danger. If they should derive less
benefit, therefore, from the Union in some respects than the less distant States, they will derive
greater benefit from it in other respects, and thus the proper equilibrium will be maintained
throughout.

I submit to you, my fellow-citizens, these considerations, in full confidence that the good sense
which has so often marked your decisions will allow them their due weight and effect; and that
you will never suffer difficulties, however formidable in appearance, or however fashionable the
error on which they may be founded, to drive you into the gloomy and perilous scene into which
the advocates for disunion would conduct you. Hearken not to the unnatural voice which tells
you that the people of America, knit together as they are by so many cords of affection, can no
longer live together as members of the same family; can no longer continue the mutual guardians



                                                                   71
 
                               


of their mutual happiness; can no longer be fellow citizens of one great, respectable, and
flourishing empire. Hearken not to the voice which petulantly tells you that the form of
government recommended for your adoption is a novelty in the political world; that it has never
yet had a place in the theories of the wildest projectors; that it rashly attempts what it is
impossible to accomplish. No, my countrymen, shut your ears against this unhallowed language.
Shut your hearts against the poison which it conveys; the kindred blood which flows in the veins
of American citizens, the mingled blood which they have shed in defense of their sacred rights,
consecrate their Union, and excite horror at the idea of their becoming aliens, rivals, enemies.
And if novelties are to be shunned, believe me, the most alarming of all novelties, the most wild
of all projects, the most rash of all attempts, is that of rendering us in pieces, in order to preserve
our liberties and promote our happiness. But why is the experiment of an extended republic to be
rejected, merely because it may comprise what is new? Is it not the glory of the people of
America, that, whilst they have paid a decent regard to the opinions of former times and other
nations, they have not suffered a blind veneration for antiquity, for custom, or for names, to
overrule the suggestions of their own good sense, the knowledge of their own situation, and the
lessons of their own experience? To this manly spirit, posterity will be indebted for the
possession, and the world for the example, of the numerous innovations displayed on the
American theatre, in favor of private rights and public happiness. Had no important step been
taken by the leaders of the Revolution for which a precedent could not be discovered, no
government established of which an exact model did not present itself, the people of the United
States might, at this moment have been numbered among the melancholy victims of misguided
councils, must at best have been laboring under the weight of some of those forms which have
crushed the liberties of the rest of mankind. Happily for America, happily, we trust, for the whole
human race, they pursued a new and more noble course. They accomplished a revolution which
has no parallel in the annals of human society. They reared the fabrics of governments which
have no model on the face of the globe. They formed the design of a great Confederacy, which it
is incumbent on their successors to improve and perpetuate. If their works betray imperfections,
we wonder at the fewness of them. If they erred most in the structure of the Union, this was the
work most difficult to be executed; this is the work which has been new modelled by the act of
your convention, and it is that act on which you are now to deliberate and to decide.




                                                                    72
 
                               



Federalist No. 15 - Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to
Preserve the Union
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, December 1, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

IN THE course of the preceding papers, I have endeavored, my fellow citizens, to place before
you, in a clear and convincing light, the importance of Union to your political safety and
happiness. I have unfolded to you a complication of dangers to which you would be exposed,
should you permit that sacred knot which binds the people of America together be severed or
dissolved by ambition or by avarice, by jealousy or by misrepresentation. In the sequel of the
inquiry through which I propose to accompany you, the truths intended to be inculcated will
receive further confirmation from facts and arguments hitherto unnoticed. If the road over which
you will still have to pass should in some places appear to you tedious or irksome, you will
recollect that you are in quest of information on a subject the most momentous which can engage
the attention of a free people, that the field through which you have to travel is in itself spacious,
and that the difficulties of the journey have been unnecessarily increased by the mazes with
which sophistry has beset the way. It will be my aim to remove the obstacles from your progress
in as compendious a manner as it can be done, without sacrificing utility to despatch.

In pursuance of the plan which I have laid down for the discussion of the subject, the point next
in order to be examined is the “insufficiency of the present Confederation to the preservation of
the Union.” It may perhaps be asked what need there is of reasoning or proof to illustrate a
position which is not either controverted or doubted, to which the understandings and feelings of
all classes of men assent, and which in substance is admitted by the opponents as well as by the
friends of the new Constitution. It must in truth be acknowledged that, however these may differ
in other respects, they in general appear to harmonize in this sentiment, at least, that there are
material imperfections in our national system, and that something is necessary to be done to
rescue us from impending anarchy. The facts that support this opinion are no longer objects of
speculation. They have forced themselves upon the sensibility of the people at large, and have at
length extorted from those, whose mistaken policy has had the principal share in precipitating the
extremity at which we are arrived, a reluctant confession of the reality of those defects in the
scheme of our federal government, which have been long pointed out and regretted by the
intelligent friends of the Union.

We may indeed with propriety be said to have reached almost the last stage of national
humiliation. There is scarcely anything that can wound the pride or degrade the character of an
independent nation which we do not experience. Are there engagements to the performance of
which we are held by every tie respectable among men? These are the subjects of constant and
unblushing violation. Do we owe debts to foreigners and to our own citizens contracted in a time


                                                                    73
 
                              


of imminent peril for the preservation of our political existence? These remain without any
proper or satisfactory provision for their discharge. Have we valuable territories and important
posts in the possession of a foreign power which, by express stipulations, ought long since to
have been surrendered? These are still retained, to the prejudice of our interests, not less than of
our rights. Are we in a condition to resent or to repel the aggression? We have neither troops, nor
treasury, nor government.1 Are we even in a condition to remonstrate with dignity? The just
imputations on our own faith, in respect to the same treaty, ought first to be removed. Are we
entitled by nature and compact to a free participation in the navigation of the Mississippi? Spain
excludes us from it. Is public credit an indispensable resource in time of public danger? We seem
to have abandoned its cause as desperate and irretrievable. Is commerce of importance to
national wealth? Ours is at the lowest point of declension. Is respectability in the eyes of foreign
powers a safeguard against foreign encroachments? The imbecility of our government even
forbids them to treat with us. Our ambassadors abroad are the mere ants of mimic
sovereignty. Is a violent and unnatural decrease in the value of land a symptom of national
distress? The price of improved land in most parts of the country is much lower than can be
accounted for by the quantity of waste land at market, and can only be fully explained by that
want of private and public confidence, which are so alarmingly prevalent among all ranks, and
which have a direct tendency to depreciate property of every kind. Is private credit the friend and
patron of industry? That most useful kind which relates to borrowing and lending is reduced
within the narrowest limits, and this still more from an opinion of insecurity than from the
scarcity of money. To shorten an enumeration of particulars which can afford neither pleasure
nor instruction, it may in general be demanded, what indication is there of national disorder,
poverty, and insignificance that could befall a community so peculiarly blessed with natural
advantages as we are, which does not form a part of the dark catalogue of our public
misfortunes?

This is the melancholy situation to which we have been brought by those very maxims and
councils which would now deter us from adopting the proposed Constitution; and which, not
content with having conducted us to the brink of a precipice, seem resolved to plunge us into the
abyss that awaits us below. Here, my countrymen, impelled by every motive that ought to
influence an enlightened people, let us make a firm stand for our safety, our tranquillity, our
dignity, our reputation. Let us at last break the fatal charm which has too long seduced us from
the paths of felicity and prosperity.

It is true, as has been before observed that facts, too stubborn to be resisted, have produced a
species of general assent to the abstract proposition that there exist material defects in our
national system; but the usefulness of the concession, on the part of the old adversaries of federal
measures, is destroyed by a strenuous opposition to a remedy, upon the only principles that can
give it a chance of success. While they admit that the government of the United States is destitute
of energy, they contend against conferring upon it those powers which are requisite to supply
that energy. They seem still to aim at things repugnant and irreconcilable; at an augmentation of
federal authority, without a diminution of State authority; at sovereignty in the Union, and
complete independence in the members. They still, in fine, seem to cherish with blind devotion



                                                                  74
 
                               


the political monster of an imperium in imperio. This renders a full display of the principal
defects of the Confederation necessary, in order to show that the evils we experience do not
proceed from minute or partial imperfections, but from fundamental errors in the structure of the
building, which cannot be amended otherwise than by an alteration in the first principles and
main pillars of the fabric.

The great and radical vice in the construction of the existing Confederation is in the principle of
LEGISLATION for STATES or GOVERNMENTS, in their CORPORATE or COLLECTIVE
CAPACITIES, and as contradistinguished from the INDIVIDUALS of which they consist.
Though this principle does not run through all the powers delegated to the Union, yet it pervades
and governs those on which the efficacy of the rest depends. Except as to the rule of
appointment, the United States has an indefinite discretion to make requisitions for men and
money; but they have no authority to raise either, by regulations extending to the individual
citizens of America. The consequence of this is, that though in theory their resolutions
concerning those objects are laws, constitutionally binding on the members of the Union, yet in
practice they are mere recommendations which the States observe or disregard at their option.

It is a singular instance of the capriciousness of the human mind, that after all the admonitions
we have had from experience on this head, there should still be found men who object to the new
Constitution, for deviating from a principle which has been found the bane of the old, and which
is in itself evidently incompatible with the idea of GOVERNMENT; a principle, in short, which,
if it is to be executed at all, must substitute the violent and sanguinary agency of the sword to the
mild influence of the magistracy.

There is nothing absurd or impracticable in the idea of a league or alliance between independent
nations for certain defined purposes precisely stated in a treaty regulating all the details of time,
place, circumstance, and quantity; leaving nothing to future discretion; and depending for its
execution on the good faith of the parties. Compacts of this kind exist among all civilized
nations, subject to the usual vicissitudes of peace and war, of observance and non-observance, as
the interests or passions of the contracting powers dictate. In the early part of the present century
there was an epidemical rage in Europe for this species of compacts, from which the politicians
of the times fondly hoped for benefits which were never realized. With a view to establishing the
equilibrium of power and the peace of that part of the world, all the resources of negotiation were
exhausted, and triple and quadruple alliances were formed; but they were scarcely formed before
they were broken, giving an instructive but afflicting lesson to mankind, how little dependence is
to be placed on treaties which have no other sanction than the obligations of good faith, and
which oppose general considerations of peace and justice to the impulse of any immediate
interest or passion.

If the particular States in this country are disposed to stand in a similar relation to each other, and
to drop the project of a general DISCRETIONARY SUPERINTENDENCE, the scheme would
indeed be pernicious, and would entail upon us all the mischiefs which have been enumerated
under the first head; but it would have the merit of being, at least, consistent and practicable



                                                                     75
 
                               


Abandoning all views towards a confederate government, this would bring us to a simple
alliance offensive and defensive; and would place us in a situation to be alternate friends and
enemies of each other, as our mutual jealousies and rivalships, nourished by the intrigues of
foreign nations, should prescribe to us.

But if we are unwilling to be placed in this perilous situation; if we still will adhere to the design
of a national government, or, which is the same thing, of a superintending power, under the
direction of a common council, we must resolve to incorporate into our plan those ingredients
which may be considered as forming the characteristic difference between a league and a
government; we must extend the authority of the Union to the persons of the citizens, — the only
proper objects of government.

Government implies the power of making laws. It is essential to the idea of a law, that it be
attended with a sanction; or, in other words, a penalty or punishment for disobedience. If there be
no penalty annexed to disobedience, the resolutions or commands which pretend to be laws will,
in fact, amount to nothing more than advice or recommendation. This penalty, whatever it may
be, can only be inflicted in two ways: by the agency of the courts and ministers of justice, or by
military force; by the COERCION of the magistracy, or by the COERCION of arms. The first
kind can evidently apply only to men; the last kind must of necessity, be employed against
bodies politic, or communities, or States. It is evident that there is no process of a court by which
the observance of the laws can, in the last resort, be enforced. Sentences may be denounced
against them for violations of their duty; but these sentences can only be carried into execution
by the sword. In an association where the general authority is confined to the collective bodies of
the communities, that compose it, every breach of the laws must involve a state of war; and
military execution must become the only instrument of civil obedience. Such a state of things can
certainly not deserve the name of government, nor would any prudent man choose to commit his
happiness to it.

There was a time when we were told that breaches, by the States, of the regulations of the federal
authority were not to be expected; that a sense of common interest would preside over the
conduct of the respective members, and would beget a full compliance with all the constitutional
requisitions of the Union. This language, at the present day, would appear as wild as a great part
of what we now hear from the same quarter will be thought, when we shall have received further
lessons from that best oracle of wisdom, experience. It at all times betrayed an ignorance of the
true springs by which human conduct is actuated, and belied the original inducements to the
establishment of civil power. Why has government been instituted at all? Because the passions of
men will not conform to the dictates of reason and justice, without constraint. Has it been found
that bodies of men act with more rectitude or greater disinterestedness than individuals? The
contrary of this has been inferred by all accurate observers of the conduct of mankind; and the
inference is founded upon obvious reasons. Regard to reputation has a less active influence,
when the infamy of a bad action is to be divided among a number than when it is to fall singly
upon one. A spirit of faction, which is apt to mingle its poison in the deliberations of all bodies




                                                                    76
 
                               


of men, will often hurry the persons of whom they are composed into improprieties and excesses,
for which they would blush in a private capacity.

In addition to all this, there is, in the nature of sovereign power, an impatience of control, that
disposes those who are invested with the exercise of it, to look with an evil eye upon all external
attempts to restrain or direct its operations. From this spirit it happens, that in every political
association which is formed upon the principle of uniting in a common interest a number of
lesser sovereignties, there will be found a kind of eccentric tendency in the subordinate or
inferior orbs, by the operation of which there will be a perpetual effort in each to fly off from the
common centre. This tendency is not difficult to be accounted for. It has its origin in the love of
power. Power controlled or abridged is almost always the rival and enemy of that power by
which it is controlled or abridged. This simple proposition will teach us how little reason there is
to expect, that the persons intrusted with the administration of the affairs of the particular
members of a confederacy will at all times be ready, with perfect good-humor, and an unbiased
regard to the public weal, to execute the resolutions or decrees of the general authority. The
reverse of this results from the constitution of man.

If, therefore, the measures of the Confederacy cannot be executed without the intervention of the
particular administrations, there will be little prospect of their being executed at all. The rulers of
the respective members, whether they have a constitutional right to do it or not, will undertake to
judge of the propriety of the measures themselves. They will consider the conformity of the thing
proposed or required to their immediate interests or aims; the momentary conveniences or
inconveniences that would attend its adoption. All this will be done; and in a spirit of interested
and suspicious scrutiny, without that knowledge of national circumstances and reasons of state,
which is essential to a right judgment, and with that strong predilection in favor of local objects,
which can hardly fail to mislead the decision. The same process must be repeated in every
member of which the body is constituted; and the execution of the plans, framed by the councils
of the whole, will always fluctuate on the discretion of the ill-informed and prejudiced opinion of
every part. Those who have been conversant in the proceedings of popular assemblies; who have
seen how difficult it often is, where there is no exterior pressure of circumstances, to bring them
to harmonious resolutions on important points, will readily conceive how impossible it must be
to induce a number of such assemblies, deliberating at a distance from each other, at different
times, and under different impressions, long to co-operate in the same views and pursuits.

In our case, the concurrence of thirteen distinct sovereign wills is requisite, under the
Confederation, to the complete execution of every important measure that proceeds from the
Union. It has happened as was to have been foreseen. The measures of the Union have not been
executed; the delinquencies of the States have, step by step, matured themselves to an extreme,
which has, at length, arrested all the wheels of the national government, and brought them to an
awful stand. Congress at this time scarcely possess the means of keeping up the forms of
administration, till the States can have time to agree upon a more substantial substitute for the
present shadow of a federal government. Things did not come to this desperate extremity at once.
The causes which have been specified produced at first only unequal and disproportionate



                                                                     77
 
                              


degrees of compliance with the requisitions of the Union. The greater deficiencies of some States
furnished the pretext of example and the temptation of interest to the complying, or to the least
delinquent States. Why should we do more in proportion than those who are embarked with us in
the same political voyage? Why should we consent to bear more than our proper share of the
common burden? These were suggestions which human selfishness could not withstand, and
which even speculative men, who looked forward to remote consequences, could not, without
hesitation, combat. Each State, yielding to the persuasive voice of immediate interest or
convenience, has successively withdrawn its support, till the frail and tottering edifice seems
ready to fall upon our heads, and to crush us beneath its ruins.




                                                               78
 
                              



Federalist No. 16 - Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to
Preserve the Union (continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, December 4, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

THE tendency of the principle of legislation for States, or communities, in their political
capacities, as it has been exemplified by the experiment we have made of it, is equally attested
by the events which have befallen all other governments of the confederate kind, of which we
have any account, in exact proportion to its prevalence in those systems. The confirmations of
this fact will be worthy of a distinct and particular examination. I shall content myself with
barely observing here, that of all the confederacies of antiquity, which history has handed down
to us, the Lycian and Achaean leagues, as far as there remain vestiges of them, appear to have
been most free from the fetters of that mistaken principle, and were accordingly those which
have best deserved, and have most liberally received, the applauding suffrages of political
writers.

This exceptionable principle may, as truly as emphatically, be styled the parent of anarchy: It has
been seen that delinquencies in the members of the Union are its natural and necessary offspring;
and that whenever they happen, the only constitutional remedy is force, and the immediate effect
of the use of it, civil war.

It remains to inquire how far so odious an engine of government, in its application to us, would
even be capable of answering its end. If there should not be a large army constantly at the
disposal of the national government it would either not be able to employ force at all, or, when
this could be done, it would amount to a war between parts of the Confederacy concerning the
infractions of a league, in which the strongest combination would be most likely to prevail,
whether it consisted of those who supported or of those who resisted the general authority. It
would rarely happen that the delinquency to be redressed would be confined to a single member,
and if there were more than one who had neglected their duty, similarity of situation would
induce them to unite for common defense. Independent of this motive of sympathy, if a large and
influential State should happen to be the aggressing member, it would commonly have weight
enough with its neighbors to win over some of them as associates to its cause. Specious
arguments of danger to the common liberty could easily be contrived; plausible excuses for the
deficiencies of the party could, without difficulty, be invented to alarm the apprehensions,
inflame the passions, and conciliate the good-will, even of those States which were not
chargeable with any violation or omission of duty. This would be the more likely to take place,
as the delinquencies of the larger members might be expected sometimes to proceed from an
ambitious premeditation in their rulers, with a view to getting rid of all external control upon
their designs of personal aggrandizement; the better to effect which it is presumable they would


                                                                 79
 
                               


tamper beforehand with leading individuals in the adjacent States. If associates could not be
found at home, recourse would be had to the aid of foreign powers, who would seldom be
disinclined to encouraging the dissensions of a Confederacy, from the firm union of which they
had so much to fear. When the sword is once drawn, the passions of men observe no bounds of
moderation. The suggestions of wounded pride, the instigations of irritated resentment, would be
apt to carry the States against which the arms of the Union were exerted, to any extremes
necessary to avenge the affront or to avoid the disgrace of submission. The first war of this kind
would probably terminate in a dissolution of the Union.

This may be considered as the violent death of the Confederacy. Its more natural death is what
we now seem to be on the point of experiencing, if the federal system be not speedily renovated
in a more substantial form. It is not probable, considering the genius of this country, that the
complying States would often be inclined to support the authority of the Union by engaging in a
war against the non-complying States. They would always be more ready to pursue the milder
course of putting themselves upon an equal footing with the delinquent members by an imitation
of their example. And the guilt of all would thus become the security of all. Our past experience
has exhibited the operation of this spirit in its full light. There would, in fact, be an insuperable
difficulty in ascertaining when force could with propriety be employed. In the article of
pecuniary contribution, which would be the most usual source of delinquency, it would often be
impossible to decide whether it had proceeded from disinclination or inability. The pretense of
the latter would always be at hand. And the case must be very flagrant in which its fallacy could
be detected with sufficient certainty to justify the harsh expedient of compulsion. It is easy to see
that this problem alone, as often as it should occur, would open a wide field for the exercise of
factious views, of partiality, and of oppression, in the majority that happened to prevail in the
national council.

It seems to require no pains to prove that the States ought not to prefer a national Constitution
which could only be kept in motion by the instrumentality of a large army continually on foot to
execute the ordinary requisitions or decrees of the government. And yet this is the plain
alternative involved by those who wish to deny it the power of extending its operations to
individuals. Such a scheme, if practicable at all, would instantly degenerate into a military
despotism; but it will be found in every light impracticable. The resources of the Union would
not be equal to the maintenance of an army considerable enough to confine the larger States
within the limits of their duty; nor would the means ever be furnished of forming such an army in
the first instance. Whoever considers the populousness and strength of several of these States
singly at the present juncture, and looks forward to what they will become, even at the distance
of half a century, will at once dismiss as idle and visionary any scheme which aims at regulating
their movements by laws to operate upon them in their collective capacities, and to be executed
by a coercion applicable to them in the same capacities. A project of this kind is little less
romantic than the monster-taming spirit which is attributed to the fabulous heroes and demi-gods
of antiquity.




                                                                   80
 
                               


Even in those confederacies which have been composed of members smaller than many of our
counties, the principle of legislation for sovereign States, supported by military coercion, has
never been found effectual. It has rarely been attempted to be employed, but against the weaker
members; and in most instances attempts to coerce the refractory and disobedient have been the
signals of bloody wars, in which one half of the confederacy has displayed its banners against the
other half.

The result of these observations to an intelligent mind must be clearly this, that if it be possible at
any rate to construct a federal government capable of regulating the common concerns and
preserving the general tranquillity, it must be founded, as to the objects committed to its care,
upon the reverse of the principle contended for by the opponents of the proposed Constitution. It
must carry its agency to the persons of the citizens. It must stand in need of no intermediate
legislations; but must itself be empowered to employ the arm of the ordinary magistrate to
execute its own resolutions. The majesty of the national authority must be manifested through
the medium of the courts of justice. The government of the Union, like that of each State, must
be able to address itself immediately to the hopes and fears of individuals; and to attract to its
support those passions which have the strongest influence upon the human heart. It must, in
short, possess all the means, and have aright to resort to all the methods, of executing the powers
with which it is intrusted, that are possessed and exercised by the government of the particular
States.

To this reasoning it may perhaps be objected, that if any State should be disaffected to the
authority of the Union, it could at any time obstruct the execution of its laws, and bring the
matter to the same issue of force, with the necessity of which the opposite scheme is reproached.

The pausibility of this objection will vanish the moment we advert to the essential difference
between a mere NON-COMPLIANCE and a DIRECT and ACTIVE RESISTANCE. If the
interposition of the State legislatures be necessary to give effect to a measure of the Union, they
have only NOT TO ACT, or TO ACT EVASIVELY, and the measure is defeated. This neglect
of duty may be disguised under affected but unsubstantial provisions, so as not to appear, and of
course not to excite any alarm in the people for the safety of the Constitution. The State leaders
may even make a merit of their surreptitious invasions of it on the ground of some temporary
convenience, exemption, or advantage.

But if the execution of the laws of the national government should not require the intervention of
the State legislatures, if they were to pass into immediate operation upon the citizens themselves,
the particular governments could not interrupt their progress without an open and violent
exertion of an unconstitutional power. No omissions nor evasions would answer the end. They
would be obliged to act, and in such a manner as would leave no doubt that they had encroached
on the national rights. An experiment of this nature would always be hazardous in the face of a
constitution in any degree competent to its own defense, and of a people enlightened enough to
distinguish between a legal exercise and an illegal usurpation of authority. The success of it
would require not merely a factious majority in the legislature, but the concurrence of the courts



                                                                    81
 
                              


of justice and of the body of the people. If the judges were not embarked in a conspiracy with the
legislature, they would pronounce the resolutions of such a majority to be contrary to the
supreme law of the land, unconstitutional, and void. If the people were not tainted with the spirit
of their State representatives, they, as the natural guardians of the Constitution, would throw
their weight into the national scale and give it a decided preponderancy in the contest. Attempts
of this kind would not often be made with levity or rashness, because they could seldom be made
without danger to the authors, unless in cases of a tyrannical exercise of the federal authority.

If opposition to the national government should arise from the disorderly conduct of refractory or
seditious individuals, it could be overcome by the same means which are daily employed against
the same evil under the State governments. The magistracy, being equally the ministers of the
law of the land, from whatever source it might emanate, would doubtless be as ready to guard the
national as the local regulations from the inroads of private licentiousness. As to those partial
commotions and insurrections, which sometimes disquiet society, from the intrigues of an
inconsiderable faction, or from sudden or occasional illhumors that do not infect the great body
of the community the general government could command more extensive resources for the
suppression of disturbances of that kind than would be in the power of any single member. And
as to those mortal feuds which, in certain conjunctures, spread a conflagration through a whole
nation, or through a very large proportion of it, proceeding either from weighty causes of
discontent given by the government or from the contagion of some violent popular paroxysm,
they do not fall within any ordinary rules of calculation. When they happen, they commonly
amount to revolutions and dismemberments of empire. No form of government can always either
avoid or control them. It is in vain to hope to guard against events too mighty for human
foresight or precaution, and it would be idle to object to a government because it could not
perform impossibilities.




                                                                 82
 
                               



Federalist No. 17 - Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to
Preserve the Union (continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, December 5, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

AN OBJECTION, of a nature different from that which has been stated and answered, in my last
address, may perhaps be likewise urged against the principle of legislation for the individual
citizens of America. It may be said that it would tend to render the government of the Union too
powerful, and to enable it to absorb those residuary authorities, which it might be judged proper
to leave with the States for local purposes. Allowing the utmost latitude to the love of power
which any reasonable man can require, I confess I am at a loss to discover what temptation the
persons intrusted with the administration of the general government could ever feel to divest the
States of the authorities of that description. The regulation of the mere domestic police of a State
appears to me to hold out slender allurements to ambition. Commerce, finance, negotiation, and
war seem to comprehend all the objects which have charms for minds governed by that passion;
and all the powers necessary to those objects ought, in the first instance, to be lodged in the
national depository. The administration of private justice between the citizens of the same State,
the supervision of agriculture and of other concerns of a similar nature, all those things, in short,
which are proper to be provided for by local legislation, can never be desirable cares of a general
jurisdiction. It is therefore improbable that there should exist a disposition in the federal councils
to usurp the powers with which they are connected; because the attempt to exercise those powers
would be as troublesome as it would be nugatory; and the possession of them, for that reason,
would contribute nothing to the dignity, to the importance, or to the splendor of the national
government.

But let it be admitted, for argument’s sake, that mere wantonness and lust of domination would
be sufficient to beget that disposition; still it may be safely affirmed, that the sense of the
constituent body of the national representatives, or, in other words, the people of the several
States, would control the indulgence of so extravagant an appetite. It will always be far more
easy for the State governments to encroach upon the national authorities than for the national
government to encroach upon the State authorities. The proof of this proposition turns upon the
greater degree of influence which the State governments if they administer their affairs with
uprightness and prudence, will generally possess over the people; a circumstance which at the
same time teaches us that there is an inherent and intrinsic weakness in all federal constitutions;
and that too much pains cannot be taken in their organization, to give them all the force which is
compatible with the principles of liberty.




                                                                    83
 
                              


The superiority of influence in favor of the particular governments would result partly from the
diffusive construction of the national government, but chiefly from the nature of the objects to
which the attention of the State administrations would be directed.

It is a known fact in human nature, that its affections are commonly weak in proportion to the
distance or diffusiveness of the object. Upon the same principle that a man is more attached to
his family than to his neighborhood, to his neighborhood than to the community at large, the
people of each State would be apt to feel a stronger bias towards their local governments than
towards the government of the Union; unless the force of that principle should be destroyed by a
much better administration of the latter.

This strong propensity of the human heart would find powerful auxiliaries in the objects of State
regulation.

The variety of more minute interests, which will necessarily fall under the superintendence of the
local administrations, and which will form so many rivulets of influence, running through every
part of the society, cannot be particularized, without involving a detail too tedious and
uninteresting to compensate for the instruction it might afford.

There is one transcendant advantage belonging to the province of the State governments, which
alone suffices to place the matter in a clear and satisfactory light, — I mean the ordinary
administration of criminal and civil justice. This, of all others, is the most powerful, most
universal, and most attractive source of popular obedience and attachment. It is that which, being
the immediate and visible guardian of life and property, having its benefits and its terrors in
constant activity before the public eye, regulating all those personal interests and familiar
concerns to which the sensibility of individuals is more immediately awake, contributes, more
than any other circumstance, to impressing upon the minds of the people, affection, esteem, and
reverence towards the government. This great cement of society, which will diffuse itself almost
wholly through the channels of the particular governments, independent of all other causes of
influence, would insure them so decided an empire over their respective citizens as to render
them at all times a complete counterpoise, and, not unfrequently, dangerous rivals to the power
of the Union.

The operations of the national government, on the other hand, falling less immediately under the
observation of the mass of the citizens, the benefits derived from it will chiefly be perceived and
attended to by speculative men. Relating to more general interests, they will be less apt to come
home to the feelings of the people; and, in proportion, less likely to inspire an habitual sense of
obligation, and an active sentiment of attachment.

The reasoning on this head has been abundantly exemplified by the experience of all federal
constitutions with which we are acquainted, and of all others which have borne the least analogy
to them.




                                                                  84
 
                              


Though the ancient feudal systems were not, strictly speaking, confederacies, yet they partook of
the nature of that species of association. There was a common head, chieftain, or sovereign,
whose authority extended over the whole nation; and a number of subordinate vassals, or
feudatories, who had large portions of land allotted to them, and numerous trains of inferior
vassals or retainers, who occupied and cultivated that land upon the tenure of fealty or
obedience, to the persons of whom they held it. Each principal vassal was a kind of sovereign,
within his particular demesnes. The consequences of this situation were a continual opposition to
authority of the sovereign, and frequent wars between the great barons or chief feudatories
themselves. The power of the head of the nation was commonly too weak, either to preserve the
public peace, or to protect the people against the oppressions of their immediate lords. This
period of European affairs is emphatically styled by historians, the times of feudal anarchy.

When the sovereign happened to be a man of vigorous and warlike temper and of superior
abilities, he would acquire a personal weight and influence, which answered, for the time, the
purpose of a more regular authority. But in general, the power of the barons triumphed over that
of the prince; and in many instances his dominion was entirely thrown off, and the great fiefs
were erected into independent principalities or States. In those instances in which the monarch
finally prevailed over his vassals, his success was chiefly owing to the tyranny of those vassals
over their dependents. The barons, or nobles, equally the enemies of the sovereign and the
oppressors of the common people, were dreaded and detested by both; till mutual danger and
mutual interest effected a union between them fatal to the power of the aristocracy. Had the
nobles, by a conduct of clemency and justice, preserved the fidelity and devotion of their
retainers and followers, the contests between them and the prince must almost always have
ended in their favor, and in the abridgment or subversion of the royal authority.

This is not an assertion founded merely in speculation or conjecture. Among other illustrations of
its truth which might be cited, Scotland will furnish a cogent example. The spirit of clanship
which was, at an early day, introduced into that kingdom, uniting the nobles and their dependants
by ties equivalent to those of kindred, rendered the aristocracy a constant overmatch for the
power of the monarch, till the incorporation with England subdued its fierce and ungovernable
spirit, and reduced it within those rules of subordination which a more rational and more
energetic system of civil polity had previously established in the latter kingdom.

The separate governments in a confederacy may aptly be compared with the feudal baronies;
with this advantage in their favor, that from the reasons already explained, they will generally
possess the confidence and good-will of the people, and with so important a support, will be able
effectually to oppose all encroachments of the national government. It will be well if they are not
able to counteract its legitimate and necessary authority. The points of similitude consist in the
rivalship of power, applicable to both, and in the CONCENTRATION of large portions of the
strength of the community into particular DEPOSITORIES, in one case at the disposal of
individuals, in the other case at the disposal of political bodies.




                                                                 85
 
                              


A concise review of the events that have attended confederate governments will further illustrate
this important doctrine; an inattention to which has been the great source of our political
mistakes, and has given our jealousy a direction to the wrong side. This review shall form the
subject of some ensuing papers.




                                                                86
 
                              



Federalist No. 18 - Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to
Preserve the Union (continued)
Written by James Madison with Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Friday, December 7, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

AMONG the confederacies of antiquity, the most considerable was that of the Grecian republics,
associated under the Amphictyonic council. From the best accounts transmitted of this celebrated
institution, it bore a very instructive analogy to the present Confederation of the American States.

The members retained the character of independent and sovereign states, and had equal votes in
the federal council. This council had a general authority to propose and resolve whatever it
judged necessary for the common welfare of Greece; to declare and carry on war; to decide, in
the last resort, all controversies between the members; to fine the aggressing party; to employ the
whole force of the confederacy against the disobedient; to admit new members. The
Amphictyons were the guardians of religion, and of the immense riches belonging to the temple
of Delphos, where they had the right of jurisdiction in controversies between the inhabitants and
those who came to consult the oracle. As a further provision for the efficacy of the federal
powers, they took an oath mutually to defend and protect the united cities, to punish the violators
of this oath, and to inflict vengeance on sacrilegious despoilers of the temple.

In theory, and upon paper, this apparatus of powers seems amply sufficient for all general
purposes. In several material instances, they exceed the powers enumerated in the articles of
confederation. The Amphictyons had in their hands the superstition of the times, one of the
principal engines by which government was then maintained; they had a declared authority to
use coercion against refractory cities, and were bound by oath to exert this authority on the
necessary occasions.

Very different, nevertheless, was the experiment from the theory. The powers, like those of the
present Congress, were administered by deputies appointed wholly by the cities in their political
capacities; and exercised over them in the same capacities. Hence the weakness, the disorders,
and finally the destruction of the confederacy. The more powerful members, instead of being
kept in awe and subordination, tyrannized successively over all the rest. Athens, as we learn from
Demosthenes, was the arbiter of Greece seventy-three years. The Lacedaemonians next governed
it twenty-nine years; at a subsequent period, after the battle of Leuctra, the Thebans had their
turn of domination.

It happened but too often, according to Plutarch, that the deputies of the strongest cities awed and
corrupted those of the weaker; and that judgment went in favor of the most powerful party.



                                                                  87
 
                              


Even in the midst of defensive and dangerous wars with Persia and Macedon, the members never
acted in concert, and were, more or fewer of them, eternally the dupes or the hirelings of the
common enemy. The intervals of foreign war were filled up by domestic vicissitudes
convulsions, and carnage.

After the conclusion of the war with Xerxes, it appears that the Lacedaemonians required that a
number of the cities should be turned out of the confederacy for the unfaithful part they had
acted. The Athenians, finding that the Lacedaemonians would lose fewer partisans by such a
measure than themselves, and would become masters of the public deliberations, vigorously
opposed and defeated the attempt. This piece of history proves at once the inefficiency of the
union, the ambition and jealousy of its most powerful members, and the dependent and degraded
condition of the rest. The smaller members, though entitled by the theory of their system to
revolve in equal pride and majesty around the common center, had become, in fact, satellites of
the orbs of primary magnitude.

Had the Greeks, says the Abbé Milot, been as wise as they were courageous, they would have
been admonished by experience of the necessity of a closer union, and would have availed
themselves of the peace which followed their success against the Persian arms, to establish such
a reformation. Instead of this obvious policy, Athens and Sparta, inflated with the victories and
the glory they had acquired, became first rivals and then enemies; and did each other infinitely
more mischief than they had suffered from Xerxes. Their mutual jealousies, fears, hatreds, and
injuries ended in the celebrated Peloponnesian war; which itself ended in the ruin and slavery of
the Athenians who had begun it.

As a weak government, when not at war, is ever agitated by internal dissentions, so these never
fail to bring on fresh calamities from abroad. The Phocians having ploughed up some
consecrated ground belonging to the temple of Apollo, the Amphictyonic council, according to
the superstition of the age, imposed a fine on the sacrilegious offenders. The Phocians, being
abetted by Athens and Sparta, refused to submit to the decree. The Thebans, with others of the
cities, undertook to maintain the authority of the Amphictyons, and to avenge the violated god.
The latter, being the weaker party, invited the assistance of Philip of Macedon, who had secretly
fostered the contest. Philip gladly seized the opportunity of executing the designs he had long
planned against the liberties of Greece. By his intrigues and bribes he won over to his interests
the popular leaders of several cities; by their influence and votes, gained admission into the
Amphictyonic council; and by his arts and his arms, made himself master of the confederacy.

Such were the consequences of the fallacious principle on which this interesting establishment
was founded. Had Greece, says a judicious observer on her fate, been united by a stricter
confederation, and persevered in her union, she would never have worn the chains of Macedon;
and might have proved a barrier to the vast projects of Rome.

The Achaean league, as it is called, was another society of Grecian republics, which supplies us
with valuable instruction.



                                                                88
 
                               



The Union here was far more intimate, and its organization much wiser, than in the preceding
instance. It will accordingly appear, that though not exempt from a similar catastrophe, it by no
means equally deserved it.

The cities composing this league retained their municipal jurisdiction, appointed their own
officers, and enjoyed a perfect equality. The senate, in which they were represented, had the sole
and exclusive right of peace and war; of sending and receiving ambassadors; of entering into
treaties and alliances; of appointing a chief magistrate or praetor, as he was called, who
commanded their armies, and who, with the advice and consent of ten of the senators, not only
administered the government in the recess of the senate, but had a great share in its deliberations,
when assembled. According to the primitive constitution, there were two praetors associated in
the administration; but on trial a single one was preferred.

It appears that the cities had all the same laws and customs, the same weights and measures, and
the same money. But how far this effect proceeded from the authority of the federal council is
left in uncertainty. It is said only that the cities were in a manner compelled to receive the same
laws and usages. When Lacedaemon was brought into the league by Philopoemen, it was
attended with an abolition of the institutions and laws of Lycurgus, and an adoption of those of
the Achaeans. The Amphictyonic confederacy, of which she had been a member, left her in the
full exercise of her government and her legislation. This circumstance alone proves a very
material difference in the genius of the two systems.

It is much to be regretted that such imperfect monuments remain of this curious political fabric.
Could its interior structure and regular operation be ascertained, it is probable that more light
would be thrown by it on the science of federal government, than by any of the like experiments
with which we are acquainted.

One important fact seems to be witnessed by all the historians who take notice of Achaean
affairs. It is, that as well after the renovation of the league by Aratus, as before its dissolution by
the arts of Macedon, there was infinitely more of moderation and justice in the administration of
its government, and less of violence and sedition in the people, than were to be found in any of
the cities exercising singly all the prerogatives of sovereignty. The Abbé Mably, in his
observations on Greece, says that the popular government, which was so tempestuous elsewhere,
caused no disorders in the members of the Achaean republic, because it was there tempered by
the general authority and laws of the confederacy.

We are not to conclude too hastily, however, that faction did not, in a certain degree, agitate the
particular cities; much less that a due subordination and harmony reigned in the general system.
The contrary is sufficiently displayed in the vicissitudes and fate of the republic.

Whilst the Amphictyonic confederacy remained, that of the Achaeans, which comprehended the
less important cities only, made little figure on the theatre of Greece. When the former became a



                                                                     89
 
                               


victim to Macedon, the latter was spared by the policy of Philip and Alexander. Under the
successors of these princes, however, a different policy prevailed. The arts of division were
practiced among the Achaeans. Each city was seduced into a separate interest; the union was
dissolved. Some of the cities fell under the tyranny of Macedonian garrisons; others under that of
usurpers springing out of their own confusions. Shame and oppression erelong awaken their love
of liberty. A few cities reunited. Their example was followed by others, as opportunities were
found of cutting off their tyrants. The league soon embraced almost the whole Peloponnesus.
Macedon saw its progress; but was hindered by internal dissensions from stopping it. All Greece
caught the enthusiasm and seemed ready to unite in one confederacy, when the jealousy and
envy in Sparta and Athens, of the rising glory of the Achaeans, threw a fatal damp on the
enterprise. The dread of the Macedonian power induced the league to court the alliance of the
Kings of Egypt and Syria, who, as successors of Alexander, were rivals of the king of Macedon.
This policy was defeated by Cleomenes, king of Sparta, who was led by his ambition to make an
unprovoked attack on his neighbors, the Achaeans, and who, as an enemy to Macedon, had
interest enough with the Egyptian and Syrian princes to effect a breach of their engagements
with the league.

The Achaeans were now reduced to the dilemma of submitting to Cleomenes, or of supplicating
the aid of Macedon, its former oppressor. The latter expedient was adopted. The contests of the
Greeks always afforded a pleasing opportunity to that powerful neighbor of intermeddling in
their affairs. A Macedonian army quickly appeared. Cleomenes was vanquished. The Achaeans
soon experienced, as often happens, that a victorious and powerful ally is but another name for a
master. All that their most abject compliances could obtain from him was a toleration of the
exercise of their laws. Philip, who was now on the throne of Macedon, soon provoked by his
tyrannies, fresh combinations among the Greeks. The Achaeans, though weakenened by internal
dissensions and by the revolt of Messene, one of its members, being joined by the Ætolians and
Athenians, erected the standard of opposition. Finding themselves, though thus supported,
unequal to the undertaking, they once more had recourse to the dangerous expedient of
introducing the succor of foreign arms. The Romans, to whom the invitation was made, eagerly
embraced it. Philip was conquered; Macedon subdued. A new crisis ensued to the league.
Dissensions broke out among it members. These the Romans fostered. Callicrates and other
popular leaders became mercenary instruments for inveigling their countrymen. The more
effectually to nourish discord and disorder the Romans had, to the astonishment of those who
confided in their sincerity, already proclaimed universal liberty throughout Greece. With the
same insidious views, they now seduced the members from the league, by representing to their
pride the violation it committed on their sovereignty. By these arts this union, the last hope of
Greece, the last hope of ancient liberty, was torn into pieces; and such imbecility and distraction
introduced, that the arms of Rome found little difficulty in completing the ruin which their arts
had commenced. The Achaeans were cut to pieces, and Achaia loaded with chains, under which
it is groaning at this hour.

I have thought it not superfluous to give the outlines of this important portion of history; both
because it teaches more than one lesson, and because, as a supplement to the outlines of the



                                                                   90
 
                              


Achaean constitution, it emphatically illustrates the tendency of federal bodies rather to anarchy
among the members, than to tyranny in the head.




                                                                 91
 
                              



Federalist No. 19 - Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to
Preserve the Union (continued)
Written by James Madison with Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Saturday, December 8, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

THE examples of ancient confederacies, cited in my last paper, have not exhausted the source of
experimental instruction on this subject. There are existing institutions, founded on a similar
principle, which merit particular consideration. The first which presents itself is the Germanic
body.

In the early ages of Christianity, Germany was occupied by seven distinct nations, who had no
common chief. The Franks, one of the number, having conquered the Gauls, established the
kingdom which has taken its name from them. In the ninth century Charlemagne, its warlike
monarch, carried his victorious arms in every direction; and Germany became a part of his vast
dominions. On the dismemberment, which took place under his sons, this part was erected into a
separate and independent empire. Charlemagne and his immediate descendants possessed the
reality, as well as the ensigns and dignity of imperial power. But the principal vassals, whose
fiefs had become hereditary, and who composed the national diets which Charlemagne had not
abolished, gradually threw off the yoke and advanced to sovereign jurisdiction and
independence. The force of imperial sovereignty was insufficient to restrain such powerful
dependants; or to preserve the unity and tranquillity of the empire. The most furious private
wars, accompanied with every species of calamity, were carried on between the different princes
and states. The imperial authority, unable to maintain the public order, declined by degrees till it
was almost extinct in the anarchy, which agitated the long interval between the death of the last
emperor of the Suabian, and the accession of the first emperor of the Austrian lines. In the
eleventh century the emperors enjoyed full sovereignty: In the fifteenth they had little more than
the symbols and decorations of power.

Out of this feudal system, which has itself many of the important features of a confederacy, has
grown the federal system which constitutes the Germanic empire. Its powers are vested in a diet
representing the component members of the confederacy; in the emperor, who is the executive
magistrate, with a negative on the decrees of the diet; and in the imperial chamber and the aulic
council, two judiciary tribunals having supreme jurisdiction in controversies which concern the
empire, or which happen among its members.

The diet possesses the general power of legislating for the empire; of making war and peace;
contracting alliances; assessing quotas of troops and money; constructing fortresses; regulating
coin; admitting new members; and subjecting disobedient members to the ban of the empire, by
which the party is degraded from his sovereign rights and his possessions forfeited. The


                                                                  92
 
                               


members of the confederacy are expressly restricted from entering into compacts prejudicial to
the empire; from imposing tolls and duties on their mutual intercourse, without the consent of the
emperor and diet; from altering the value of money; from doing injustice to one another; or from
affording assistance or retreat to disturbers of the public peace. And the ban is denounced against
such as shall violate any of these restrictions. The members of the diet, as such, are subject in all
cases to be judged by the emperor and diet, and in their private capacities by the aulic council
and imperial chamber.

The prerogatives of the emperor are numerous. The most important of them are: his exclusive
right to make propositions to the diet; to negative its resolutions; to name ambassadors; to confer
dignities and titles; to fill vacant electorates; to found universities; to grant privileges not
injurious to the states of the empire; to receive and apply the public revenues; and generally to
watch over the public safety. In certain cases, the electors form a council to him. In quality of
emperor, he possesses no territory within the empire, nor receives any revenue for his support.
But his revenue and dominions, in other qualities, constitute him one of the most powerful
princes in Europe.

From such a parade of constitutional powers, in the representatives and head of this confederacy,
the natural supposition would be, that it must form an exception to the general character which
belongs to its kindred systems. Nothing would be further from the reality. The fundamental
principle on which it rests, that the empire is a community of sovereigns, that the diet is a
representation of sovereigns and that the laws are addressed to sovereigns, renders the empire a
nerveless body, incapable of regulating its own members, insecure against external dangers, and
agitated with unceasing fermentations in its own bowels.

The history of Germany is a history of wars between the emperor and the princes and states; of
wars among the princes and states themselves; of the licentiousness of the strong, and the
oppression of the weak; of foreign intrusions, and foreign intrigues; of requisitions of men and
money disregarded, or partially complied with; of attempts to enforce them, altogether abortive,
or attended with slaughter and desolation, involving the innocent with the guilty; of general
inbecility, confusion, and misery.

In the sixteenth century, the emperor, with one part of the empire on his side, was seen engaged
against the other princes and states. In one of the conflicts, the emperor himself was put to flight,
and very near being made prisoner by the elector of Saxony. The late king of Prussia was more
than once pitted against his imperial sovereign; and commonly proved an overmatch for him.
Controversies and wars among the members themselves have been so common, that the German
annals are crowded with the bloody s which describe them. Previous to the peace of
Westphalia, Germany was desolated by a war of thirty years, in which the emperor, with one half
of the empire, was on one side, and Sweden, with the other half, on the opposite side. Peace was
at length negotiated, and dictated by foreign powers; and the articles of it, to which foreign
powers are parties, made a fundamental part of the Germanic constitution.




                                                                   93
 
                              


If the nation happens, on any emergency, to be more united by the necessity of self-defense, its
situation is still deplorable. Military preparations must be preceded by so many tedious
discussions, arising from the jealousies, pride, separate views, and clashing pretensions of
sovereign bodies, that before the diet can settle the arrangements, the enemy are in the field; and
before the federal troops are ready to take it, are retiring into winter quarters.

The small body of national troops, which has been judged necessary in time of peace, is
defectively kept up, badly paid, infected with local prejudices, and supported by irregular and
disproportionate contributions to the treasury.

The impossibility of maintaining order and dispensing justice among these sovereign subjects,
produced the experiment of dividing the empire into nine or ten circles or districts; of giving
them an interior organization, and of charging them with the military execution of the laws
against delinquent and contumacious members. This experiment has only served to demonstrate
more fully the radical vice of the constitution. Each circle is the miniature picture of the
deformities of this political monster. They either fail to execute their commissions, or they do it
with all the devastation and carnage of civil war. Sometimes whole circles are defaulters; and
then they increase the mischief which they were instituted to remedy.

We may form some judgment of this scheme of military coercion from a sample given by
Thuanus. In Donawerth, a free and imperial city of the circle of Suabia, the Abbé de St. Croix
enjoyed certain immunities which had been reserved to him. In the exercise of these, on some
public occasions, outrages were committed on him by the people of the city. The consequence
was that the city was put under the ban of the empire, and the Duke of Bavaria, though director
of another circle, obtained an appointment to enforce it. He soon appeared before the city with a
corps of ten thousand troops, and finding it a fit occasion, as he had secretly intended from the
beginning, to revive an antiquated claim, on the pretext that his ancestors had suffered the place
to be dismembered from his territory, he took possession of it in his own name, disarmed, and
punished the inhabitants, and reannexed the city to his domains.

It may be asked, perhaps, what has so long kept this disjointed machine from falling entirely to
pieces? The answer is obvious: The weakness of most of the members, who are unwilling to
expose themselves to the mercy of foreign powers; the weakness of most of the principal
members, compared with the formidable powers all around them; the vast weight and influence
which the emperor derives from his separate and heriditary dominions; and the interest he feels
in preserving a system with which his family pride is connected, and which constitutes him the
first prince in Europe; — these causes support a feeble and precarious Union; whilst the repellant
quality, incident to the nature of sovereignty, and which time continually strengthens, prevents
any reform whatever, founded on a proper consolidation. Nor is it to be imagined, if this obstacle
could be surmounted, that the neighboring powers would suffer a revolution to take place which
would give to the empire the force and preeminence to which it is entitled. Foreign nations have
long considered themselves as interested in the changes made by events in this constitution; and
have, on various occasions, betrayed their policy of perpetuating its anarchy and weakness.



                                                                  94
 
                               



If more direct examples were wanting, Poland, as a government over local sovereigns, might not
improperly be taken notice of. Nor could any proof more striking be given of the calamities
flowing from such institutions. Equally unfit for self-government and self-defense, it has long
been at the mercy of its powerful neighbors; who have lately had the mercy to disburden it of one
third of its people and territories.

The connection among the Swiss cantons scarcely amounts to a confederacy; though it is
sometimes cited as an instance of the stability of such institutions.

They have no common treasury; no common troops even in war; no common coin; no common
judicatory; nor any other common mark of sovereignty.

They are kept together by the peculiarity of their topographical position; by their individual
weakness and insignificancy; by the fear of powerful neighbors, to one of which they were
formerly subject; by the few sources of contention among a people of such simple and
homogeneous manners; by their joint interest in their dependent possessions; by the mutual aid
they stand in need of, for suppressing insurrections and rebellions, an aid expressly stipulated
and often required and afforded; and by the necessity of some regular and permanent provision
for accomodating disputes among the cantons. The provision is, that the parties at variance shall
each choose four judges out of the neutral cantons, who, in case of disagreement, choose an
umpire. This tribunal, under an oath of impartiality, pronounces definitive sentence, which all the
cantons are bound to enforce. The competency of this regulation may be estimated by a clause in
their treaty of 1683, with Victor Amadeus of Savoy; in which he obliges himself to interpose as
mediator in disputes between the cantons, and to employ force, if necessary, against the
contumacious party.

So far as the peculiarity of their case will admit of comparison with that of the United States, it
serves to confirm the principle intended to be established. Whatever efficacy the union may have
had in ordinary cases, it appears that the moment a cause of difference sprang up, capable of
trying its strength, it failed. The controversies on the subject of religion, which in three instances
have kindled violent and bloody contests, may be said, in fact, to have severed the league. The
Protestant and Catholic cantons have since had their separate diets, where all the most important
concerns are adjusted, and which have left the general diet little other business than to take care
of the common bailages.

That separation had another consequence, which merits attention. It produced opposite alliances
with foreign powers: of Berne, at the head of the Protestant association, with the United
Provinces; and of Luzerne, at the head of the Catholic association, with France.




                                                                    95
 
                              



Federalist No. 20 - Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to
Preserve the Union (continued)
Written by James Madison with Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Tuesday, December 11, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

THE United Netherlands are a confederacy of republics, or rather of aristocracies of a very
remarkable texture, yet confirming all the lessons derived from those which we have already
reviewed.

The union is composed of seven coequal and sovereign states, and each state or province is a
composition of equal and independent cities. In all important cases, not only the provinces but
the cities must be unanimous.

The sovereignty of the Union is represented by the States-General, consisting usually of about
fifty deputies appointed by the provinces. They hold their seats, some for life, some for six,
three, and one years; from two provinces they continue in appointment during pleasure.

The States-General have authority to enter into treaties and alliances; to make war and peace; to
raise armies and equip fleets; to ascertain quotas and demand contributions. In all these cases,
however, unanimity and the sanction of their constituents are requisite. They have authority to
appoint and receive ambassadors; to execute treaties and alliances already formed; to provide for
the collection of duties on imports and exports; to regulate the mint, with a saving to the
provincial rights; to govern as sovereigns the dependent territories. The provinces are restrained,
unless with the general consent, from entering into foreign treaties; from establishing imposts
injurious to others, or charging their neighbors with higher duties than their own subjects. A
council of state, a chamber of accounts, with five colleges of admiralty, aid and fortify the
federal administration.

The executive magistrate of the union is the stadtholder, who is now an hereditary prince. His
principal weight and influence in the republic are derived from this independent title; from his
great patrimonial estates; from his family connections with some of the chief potentates of
Europe; and, more than all, perhaps, from his being stadtholder in the several provinces, as well
as for the union; in which provincial quality he has the appointment of town magistrates under
certain regulations, executes provincial decrees, presides when he pleases in the provincial
tribunals, and has throughout the power of pardon.

As stadtholder of the union, he has, however, considerable prerogatives.




                                                                 96
 
                               


In his political capacity he has authority to settle disputes between the provinces, when other
methods fail; to assist at the deliberations of the States-General, and at their particular
conferences; to give audiences to foreign ambassadors, and to keep agents for his particular
affairs at foreign courts.

In his military capacity he commands the federal troops, provides for garrisons, and in general
regulates military affairs; disposes of all appointments, from colonels to ensigns, and of the
governments and posts of fortified towns.

In his marine capacity he is admiral-general, and superintends and directs every thing relative to
naval forces and other naval affairs; presides in the admiralties in person or by proxy; appoints
lieutenant-admirals and other officers; and establishes councils of war, whose sentences are not
executed till he approves them.

His revenue, exclusive of his private income, amounts to three hundred thousand florins. The
standing army which he commands consists of about forty thousand men.

Such is the nature of the celebrated Belgic confederacy, as delineated on parchment. What are
the characters which practice has stamped upon it? Imbecility in the government; discord among
the provinces; foreign influence and indignities; a precarious existence in peace, and peculiar
calamities from war.

It was long ago remarked by Grotius, that nothing but the hatred of his countrymen to the house
of Austria kept them from being ruined by the vices of their constitution.

The union of Utrecht, says another respectable writer, reposes an authority in the States-General,
seemingly sufficient to secure harmony, but the jealousy in each province renders the practice
very different from the theory.

The same instrument, says another, obliges each province to levy certain contributions; but this
article never could, and probably never will, be executed; because the inland provinces, who
have little commerce, cannot pay an equal quota.

In matters of contribution, it is the practice to waive the articles of the constitution. The danger
of delay obliges the consenting provinces to furnish their quotas, without waiting for the others;
and then to obtain reimbursement from the others, by deputations, which are frequent, or
otherwise, as they can. The great wealth and influence of the province of Holland enable her to
effect both these purposes.

It has more than once happened, that the deficiencies had to be ultimately collected at the point
of the bayonet; a thing practicable, though dreadful, in a confedracy where one of the members
exceeds in force all the rest, and where several of them are too small to meditate resistance; but




                                                                   97
 
                              


utterly impracticable in one composed of members, several of which are equal to each other in
strength and resources, and equal singly to a vigorous and persevering defense.

Foreign ministers, says Sir William Temple, who was himself a foreign minister, elude matters
taken ad referendum, by tampering with the provinces and cities. In 1726, the treaty of Hanover
was delayed by these means a whole year. Instances of a like nature are numerous and notorious.

In critical emergencies, the States-General are often compelled to overleap their constitutional
bounds. In 1688, they concluded a treaty of themselves at the risk of their heads. The treaty of
Westphalia, in 1648, by which their independence was formerly and finally recognized, was
concluded without the consent of Zealand. Even as recently as the last treaty of peace with Great
Britain, the constitutional principle of unanimity was departed from. A weak constitution must
necessarily terminate in dissolution, for want of proper powers, or the usurpation of powers
requisite for the public safety. Whether the usurpation, when once begun, will stop at the salutary
point, or go forward to the dangerous extreme, must depend on the contingencies of the moment.
Tyranny has perhaps oftener grown out of the assumptions of power, called for, on pressing
exigencies, by a defective constitution, than out of the full exercise of the largest constitutional
authorities.

Notwithstanding the calamities produced by the stadtholdership, it has been supposed that
without his influence in the individual provinces, the causes of anarchy manifest in the
confederacy would long ago have dissolved it. “Under such a government,” says the Abbé
Mably, “the Union could never have subsisted, if the provinces had not a spring within
themselves, capable of quickening their tardiness, and compelling them to the same way of
thinking. This spring is the stadtholder.” It is remarked by Sir William Temple, “that in the
intermissions of the stadtholdership, Holland, by her riches and her authority, which drew the
others into a sort of dependence, supplied the place.”

These are not the only circumstances which have controlled the tendency to anarchy and
dissolution. The surrounding powers impose an absolute necessity of union to a certain degree, at
the same time that they nourish by their intrigues the constitutional vices which keep the republic
in some degree always at their mercy.

The true patriots have long bewailed the fatal tendency of these vices, and have made no less
than four regular experiments by extraordinary assemblies, convened for the special purpose, to
apply a remedy. As many times has their laudable zeal found it impossible to unite the public
councils in reforming the known, the acknowledged, the fatal evils of the existing constitution.
Let us pause, my fellow-citizens, for one moment, over this melancholy and monitory lesson of
history; and with the tear that drops for the calamities brought on mankind by their adverse
opinions and selfish passions, let our gratitude mingle an ejaculation to Heaven, for the
propitious concord which has distinguished the consultations for our political happiness.




                                                                  98
 
                              


A design was also conceived of establishing a general tax to be administered by the federal
authority. This also had its adversaries and failed.

This unhappy people seem to be now suffering from popular convulsions, from dissensions
among the states, and from the actual invasion of foreign arms, the crisis of their distiny. All
nations have their eyes fixed on the awful spectacle. The first wish prompted by humanity is, that
this severe trial may issue in such a revolution of their government as will establish their union,
and render it the parent of tranquillity, freedom and happiness: The next, that the asylum under
which, we trust, the enjoyment of these blessings will speedily be secured in this country, may
receive and console them for the catastrophe of their own.

I make no apology for having dwelt so long on the contemplation of these federal precedents.
Experience is the oracle of truth; and where its responses are unequivocal, they ought to be
conclusive and sacred. The important truth, which it unequivocally pronounces in the present
case, is that a sovereignty over sovereigns, a government over governments, a legislation for
communities, as contradistinguished from individuals, as it is a solecism in theory, so in practice
it is subversive of the order and ends of civil polity, by substituting violence in place of law, or
the destructive coercion of the sword in place of the mild and salutary coercion of the
magistracy.




                                                                  99
 
                               



Federalist No. 21 - Other Defects of the Present Confederation
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, December 12, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

HAVING in the three last numbers taken a summary review of the principal circumstances and
events which have depicted the genius and fate of other confederate governments, I shall now
proceed in the enumeration of the most important of those defects which have hitherto
disappointed our hopes from the system established among ourselves. To form a safe and
satisfactory judgment of the proper remedy, it is absolutely necessary that we should be well
acquainted with the extent and malignity of the disease.

The next most palpable defect of the subsisting Confederation, is the total want of a SANCTION
to its laws. The United States, as now composed, have no powers to exact obedience, or punish
disobedience to their resolutions, either by pecuniary mulcts, by a suspension or divestiture of
privileges, or by any other constitutional mode. There is no express delegation of authority to
them to use force against delinquent members; and if such a right should be ascribed to the
federal head, as resulting from the nature of the social compact between the States, it must be by
inference and construction, in the face of that part of the second article, by which it is declared,
"that each State shall retain every power, jurisdiction, and right, not expressly delegated to the
United States in Congress assembled." There is, doubtless, a striking absurdity in supposing that
a right of this kind does not exist, but we are reduced to the dilemma either of embracing that
supposition, preposterous as it may seem, or of contravening or explaining away a provision,
which has been of late a repeated theme of the eulogies of those who oppose the new
Constitution; and the want of which, in that plan, has been the subject of much plausible
animadversion, and severe criticism. If we are unwilling to impair the force of this applauded
provision, we shall be obliged to conclude, that the United States afford the extraordinary
spectacle of a government destitute even of the shadow of constitutional power to enforce the
execution of its own laws. It will appear, from the specimens which have been cited, that the
American Confederacy, in this particular, stands discriminated from every other institution of a
similar kind, and exhibits a new and unexampled phenomenon in the political world.

The want of a mutual guaranty of the State governments is another capital imperfection in the
federal plan. There is nothing of this kind declared in the articles that compose it; and to imply a
tacit guaranty from considerations of utility, would be a still more flagrant departure from the
clause which has been mentioned, than to imply a tacit power of coercion from the like
considerations. The want of a guaranty, though it might in its consequences endanger the Union,
does not so immediately attack its existence as the want of a constitutional sanction to its laws.




                                                                 100
 
                              


Without a guaranty the assistance to be derived from the Union in repelling those domestic
dangers which may sometimes threaten the existence of the State constitutions, must be
renounced. Usurpation may rear its crest in each State, and trample upon the liberties of the
people, while the national government could legally do nothing more than behold its
encroachments with indignation and regret. A successful faction may erect a tyranny on the ruins
of order and law, while no succor could constitutionally be afforded by the Union to the friends
and supporters of the government. The tempestuous situation from which Massachusetts has
scarcely emerged, evinces that dangers of this kind are not merely speculative. Who can
determine what might have been the issue of her late convulsions, if the malcontents had been
headed by a Caesar or by a Cromwell? Who can predict what effect a despotism, established in
Massachusetts, would have upon the liberties of New Hampshire or Rhode Island, of
Connecticut or New York?

The inordinate pride of State importance has suggested to some minds an objection to the
principle of a guaranty in the federal government, as involving an officious interference in the
domestic concerns of the members. A scruple of this kind would deprive us of one of the
principal advantages to be expected from union, and can only flow from a misapprehension of
the nature of the provision itself. It could be no impediment to reforms of the State constitution
by a majority of the people in a legal and peaceable mode. This right would remain
undiminished. The guaranty could only operate against changes to be effected by violence.
Towards the preventions of calamities of this kind, too many checks cannot be provided. The
peace of society and the stability of government depend absolutely on the efficacy of the
precautions adopted on this head. Where the whole power of the government is in the hands of
the people, there is the less pretense for the use of violent remedies in partial or occasional
distempers of the State. The natural cure for an ill-administration, in a popular or representative
constitution, is a change of men. A guaranty by the national authority would be as much levelled
against the usurpations of rulers as against the ferments and outrages of faction and sedition in
the community.

The principle of regulating the contributions of the States to the common treasury by QUOTAS
is another fundamental error in the Confederation. Its repugnancy to an adequate supply of the
national exigencies has been already pointed out, and has sufficiently appeared from the trial
which has been made of it. I speak of it now solely with a view to equality among the States.
Those who have been accustomed to contemplate the circumstances which produce and
constitute national wealth, must be satisfied that there is no common standard or barometer by
which the degrees of it can be ascertained. Neither the value of lands, nor the numbers of the
people, which have been successively proposed as the rule of State contributions, has any
pretension to being a just representative. If we compare the wealth of the United Netherlands
with that of Russia or Germany, or even of France, and if we at the same time compare the total
value of the lands and the aggregate population of that contracted district with the total value of
the lands and the aggregate population of the immense regions of either of the three last-
mentioned countries, we shall at once discover that there is no comparison between the
proportion of either of these two objects and that of the relative wealth of those nations. If the



                                                                 101
 
                              


like parallel were to be run between several of the American States, it would furnish a like result.
Let Virginia be contrasted with North Carolina, Pennsylvania with Connecticut, or Maryland
with New Jersey, and we shall be convinced that the respective abilities of those States, in
relation to revenue, bear little or no analogy to their comparative stock in lands or to their
comparative population. The position may be equally illustrated by a similar process between the
counties of the same State. No man who is acquainted with the State of New York will doubt that
the active wealth of King’s County bears a much greater proportion to that of Montgomery than
it would appear to be if we should take either the total value of the lands or the total number of
the people as a criterion!

The wealth of nations depends upon an infinite variety of causes. Situation, soil, climate, the
nature of the productions, the nature of the government, the genius of the citizens, the degree of
information they possess, the state of commerce, of arts, of industry, these circumstances and
many more, too complex, minute, or adventitious to admit of a particular specification, occasion
differences hardly conceivable in the relative opulence and riches of different countries. The
consequence clearly is that there can be no common measure of national wealth, and, of course,
no general or stationary rule by which the ability of a state to pay taxes can be determined. The
attempt, therefore, to regulate the contributions of the members of a confederacy by any such
rule, cannot fail to be productive of glaring inequality and extreme oppression.

This inequality would of itself be sufficient in America to work the eventual destruction of the
Union, if any mode of enforcing a compliance with its requisitions could be devised. The
suffering States would not long consent to remain associated upon a principle which distributes
the public burdens with so unequal a hand, and which was calculated to impoverish and oppress
the citizens of some States, while those of others would scarcely be conscious of the small
proportion of the weight they were required to sustain. This, however, is an evil inseparable from
the principle of quotas and requisitions.

There is no method of steering clear of this inconvenience, but by authorizing the national
government to raise its own revenues in its own way. Imposts, excises, and, in general, all duties
upon articles of consumption, may be compared to a fluid, which will, in time, find its level with
the means of paying them. The amount to be contributed by each citizen will in a degree be at his
own option, and can be regulated by an attention to his resources. The rich may be extravagant,
the poor can be frugal; and private oppression may always be avoided by a judicious selection of
objects proper for such impositions. If inequalities should arise in some States from duties on
particular objects, these will, in all probability, be counterbalanced by proportional inequalities
in other States, from the duties on other objects. In the course of time and things, an equilibrium,
as far as it is attainable in so complicated a subject, will be established everywhere. Or, if
inequalities should still exist, they would neither be so great in their degree, so uniform in their
operation, nor so odious in their appearance, as those which would necessarily spring from
quotas, upon any scale that can possibly be devised.




                                                                 102
 
                               


It is a signal advantage of taxes on articles of consumption, that they contain in their own nature
a security against excess. They prescribe their own limit; which cannot be exceeded without
defeating the end proposed, that is, an extension of the revenue. When applied to this object, the
saying is as just as it is witty, that, “in political arithmetic, two and two do not always make
four.” If duties are too high, they lessen the consumption; the collection is eluded; and the
product to the treasury is not so great as when they are confined within proper and moderate
bounds. This forms a complete barrier against any material oppression of the citizens by taxes of
this class, and is itself a natural limitation of the power of imposing them.

Impositions of this kind usually fall under the denomination of indirect taxes, and must for a long
time constitute the chief part of the revenue raised in this country. Those of the direct kind,
which principally relate to land and buildings, may admit of a rule of apportionment. Either the
value of land, or the number of the people, may serve as a standard. The state of agriculture and
the populousness of a country have been considered as nearly connected with each other. And, as
a rule, for the purpose intended, numbers, in the view of simplicity and certainty, are entitled to a
preference. In every country it is a herculean task to obtain a valuation of the land; in a country
imperfectly settled and progressive in improvement, the difficulties are increased almost to
impracticability. The expense of an accurate valuation is, in all situations, a formidable
objection. In a branch of taxation where no limits to the discretion of the government are to be
found in the nature of things, the establishment of a fixed rule, not incompatible with the end,
may be attended with fewer inconveniences than to leave that discretion altogether at large.




                                                                 103
 
                                



Federalist No. 22 - Other Defects of the Present Confederation
(continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Friday, December 14, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

IN ADDITION to the defects already enumerated in the existing federal system, there are others
of not less importance, which concur in rendering it altogether unfit for the administration of the
affairs of the Union.

The want of a power to regulate commerce is by all parties allowed to be of the number. The
utility of such a power has been anticipated under the first head of our inquiries; and for this
reason, as well as from the universal conviction entertained upon the subject, little need be added
in this place. It is indeed evident, on the most superficial view, that there is no object, either as it
respects the interests of trade or finance, that more strongly demands a federal superintendence.
The want of it has already operated as a bar to the formation of beneficial treaties with foreign
powers, and has given occasions of dissatisfaction between the States. No nation acquainted with
the nature of our political association would be unwise enough to enter into stipulations with the
United States, by which they conceded privileges of any importance to them, while they were
apprised that the engagements on the part of the Union might at any moment be violated by its
members, and while they found from experience that they might enjoy every advantage they
desired in our markets, without granting us any return but such as their momentary convenience
might suggest. It is not, therefore, to be wondered at that Mr. Jenkinson, in ushering into the
House of Commons a bill for regulating the temporary intercourse between the two countries,
should preface its introduction by a declaration that similar provisions in former bills had been
found to answer every purpose to the commerce of Great Britain, and that it would be prudent to
persist in the plan until it should appear whether the American government was likely or not to
acquire greater consistency.

Several States have endeavored, by separate prohibitions, restrictions, and exclusions, to
influence the conduct of that kingdom in this particular, but the want of concert, arising from the
want of a general authority and from clashing and dissimilar views in the State, has hitherto
frustrated every experiment of the kind, and will continue to do so as long as the same obstacles
to a uniformity of measures continue to exist.

The interfering and unneighborly regulations of some States, contrary to the true spirit of the
Union, have, in different instances, given just cause of umbrage and complaint to others, and it is
to be feared that examples of this nature, if not restrained by a national control, would be
multiplied and extended till they became not less serious sources of animosity and discord than
injurious impediments to the intcrcourse between the different parts of the Confederacy. "The


                                                                    104
 
                              


commerce of the German empire is in continual trammels from the multiplicity of the duties
which the several princes and states exact upon the merchandises passing through their
territories, by means of which the fine streams and navigable rivers with which Germany is so
happily watered are rendered almost useless." Though the genius of the people of this country
might never permit this description to be strictly applicable to us, yet we may reasonably expect,
from the gradual conflicts of State regulations, that the citizens of each would at length come to
be considered and treated by the others in no better light than that of foreigners and aliens.

The power of raising armies, by the most obvious construction of the articles of the
Confederation, is merely a power of making requisitions upon the States for quotas of men. This
practice in the course of the late war, was found replete with obstructions to a vigorous and to an
economical system of defense. It gave birth to a competition between the States which created a
kind of auction for men. In order to furnish the quotas required of them, they outbid each other
till bounties grew to an enormous and insupportable size. The hope of a still further increase
afforded an inducement to those who were disposed to serve to procrastinate their enlistment,
and disinclined them from engaging for any considerable periods. Hence, slow and scanty levies
of men, in the most critical emergencies of our affairs; short enlistments at an unparalleled
expense; continual fluctuations in the troops, ruinous to their discipline and subjecting the public
safety frequently to the perilous crisis of a disbanded army. Hence, also, those oppressive
expedients for raising men which were upon several occasions practiced, and which nothing but
the enthusiasm of liberty would have induced the people to endure.

This method of raising troops is not more unfriendly to economy and vigor than it is to an equal
distribution of the burden. The States near the seat of war, influenced by motives of self-
preservation, made efforts to furnish their quotas, which even exceeded their abilities; while
those at a distance from danger were, for the most part, as remiss as the others were diligent, in
their exertions. The immediate pressure of this inequality was not in this case, as in that of the
contributions of money, alleviated by the hope of a final liquidation. The States which did not
pay their proportions of money might at least be charged with their deficiencies; but no account
could be formed of the deficiencies in the supplies of men. We shall not, however, see much
reason to regret the want of this hope, when we consider how little prospect there is, that the
most delinquent States will ever be able to make compensation for their pecuniary failures. The
system of quotas and requisitions, whether it be applied to men or money, is, in every view, a
system of imbecility in the Union, and of inequality and injustice among the members.

The right of equal suffrage among the States is another exceptionable part of the Confederation.
Every idea of proportion and every rule of fair representation conspire to condemn a principle,
which gives to Rhode Island an equal weight in the scale of power with Massachusetts, or
Connecticut, or New York; and to Deleware an equal voice in the national deliberations with
Pennsylvania, or Virginia, or North Carolina. Its operation contradicts the fundamental maxim of
republican government, which requires that the sense of the majority should prevail. Sophistry
may reply, that sovereigns are equal, and that a majority of the votes of the States will be a
majority of confederated America. But this kind of logical legerdemain will never counteract the



                                                                 105
 
                                


plain suggestions of justice and common-sense. It may happen that this majority of States is a
small minority of the people of America; and two thirds of the people of America could not long
be persuaded, upon the credit of artificial distinctions and syllogistic subtleties, to submit their
interests to the management and disposal of one third. The larger States would after a while
revolt from the idea of receiving the law from the smaller. To acquiesce in such a privation of
their due importance in the political scale, would be not merely to be insensible to the love of
power, but even to sacrifice the desire of equality. It is neither rational to expect the first, nor just
to require the last. The smaller States, considering how peculiarly their safety and welfare
depend on union, ought readily to renounce a pretension which, if not relinquished, would prove
fatal to its duration.

It may be objected to this, that not seven but nine States, or two thirds of the whole number, must
consent to the most important resolutions; and it may be thence inferred that nine States would
always comprehend a majority of the Union. But this does not obviate the impropriety of an
equal vote between States of the most unequal dimensions and populousness; nor is the inference
accurate in point of fact; for we can enumerate nine States which contain less than a majority of
the people; and it is constitutionally possible that these nine may give the vote. Besides, there are
matters of considerable moment determinable by a bare majority; and there are others,
concerning which doubts have been entertained, which, if interpreted in favor of the sufficiency
of a vote of seven States, would extend its operation to interests of the first magnitude. In
addition to this, it is to be observed that there is a probability of an increase in the number of
States, and no provision for a proportional augmentation of the ratio of votes.

But this is not all: what at first sight may seem a remedy, is, in reality, a poison. To give a
minority a negative upon the majority (which is always the case where more than a majority is
requisite to a decision), is, in its tendency, to subject the sense of the greater number to that of
the lesser. Congress, from the nonattendance of a few States, have been frequently in the
situation of a Polish diet, where a single veto has been sufficient to put a stop to all their
movements. A sixtieth part of the Union, which is about the proportion of Delaware and Rhode
Island, has several times been able to oppose an entire bar to its operations. This is one of those
refinements which, in practice, has an effect the reverse of what is expected from it in theory.
The necessity of unanimity in public bodies, or of something approaching towards it, has been
founded upon a supposition that it would contribute to security. But its real operation is to
embarrass the administration, to destroy the energy of the government, and to substitute the
pleasure, caprice, or artifices of an insignificant, turbulent, or corrupt junto, to the regular
deliberations and decisions of a respectable majority. In those emergencies of a nation, in which
the goodness or badness, the weakness or strength of its government, is of the greatest
importance, there is commonly a necessity for action. The public business must, in some way or
other, go forward. If a pertinacious minority can control the opinion of a majority, respecting the
best mode of conducting it, the majority, in order that something may be done, must conform to
the views of the minority; and thus the sense of the smaller number will overrule that of the
greater, and give a tone to the national proceedings. Hence, tedious delays; continual negotiation
and intrigue; contemptible compromises of the public good. And yet, in such a system, it is even



                                                                     106
 
                              


happy when such compromises can take place: for upon some occasions things will not admit of
accommodation; and then the measures of government must be injuriously suspended, or fatally
defeated. It is often, by the impracticability of obtaining the concurrence of the necessary number
of votes, kept in a state of inaction. Its situation must always savor of weakness, sometimes
border upon anarchy.

It is not difficult to discover, that a principle of this kind gives greater scope to foreign
corruption, as well as to domestic faction, than that which permits the sense of the majority to
decide; though the contrary of this has been presumed. The mistake has proceeded from not
attending with due care to the mischiefs that may be occasioned by obstructing the progress of
government at certain critical seasons. When the concurrence of a large number is required by
the Constitution to the doing of any national act, we are apt to rest satisfied that all is safe,
because nothing improper will be likely to be done, but we forget how much good may be
prevented, and how much ill may be produced, by the power of hindering the doing what may be
necessary, and of keeping affairs in the same unfavorable posture in which they may happen to
stand at particular periods.

Suppose, for instance, we were engaged in a war, in conjunction with one foreign nation, against
another. Suppose the necessity of our situation demanded peace, and the interest or ambition of
our ally led him to seek the prosecution of the war, with views that might justify us in making
separate terms. In such a state of things, this ally of ours would evidently find it much easier, by
his bribes and intrigues, to tie up the hands of government from making peace, where two thirds
of all the votes were requisite to that object, than where a simple majority would suffice. In the
first case, he would have to corrupt a smaller number; in the last, a greater number. Upon the
same principle, it would be much easier for a foreign power with which we were at war to
perplex our councils and embarrass our exertions. And, in a commercial view, we may be
subjected to similar inconveniences. A nation, with which we might have a treaty of commerce,
could with much greater facility prevent our forming a connection with her competitor in trade,
though such a connection should be ever so beneficial to ourselves.

Evils of this description ought not to be regarded as imaginary. One of the weak sides of
republics, among their numerous advantages, is that they afford too easy an inlet to foreign
corruption. An hereditary monarch, though often disposed to sacrifice his subjects to his
ambition, has so great a personal interest in the government and in the external glory of the
nation, that it is not easy for a foreign power to give him an equivalent for what he would
sacrifice by treachery to the state. The world has accordingly been witness to few examples of
this species of royal prostitution, though there have been abundant specimens of every other
kind.

In republics, persons elevated from the mass of the community, by the suffrages of their fellow-
citizens, to stations of great pre-eminence and power, may find compensations for betraying their
trust, which, to any but minds animated and guided by superior virtue, may appear to exceed the
proportion of interest they have in the common stock, and to overbalance the obligations of duty.



                                                                 107
 
                               


Hence it is that history furnishes us with so many mortifying examples of the prevalency of
foreign corruption in republican governments. How much this contributed to the ruin of the
ancient commonwealths has been already delineated. It is well known that the deputies of the
United Provinces have, in various instances, been purchased by the emissaries of the neighboring
kingdoms. The Earl of Chesterfield (if my memory serves me right), in a letter to his court,
intimates that his success in an important negotiation must depend on his obtaining a major’s
commission for one of those deputies. And in Sweden the parties were alternately bought by
France and England in so barefaced and notorious a manner that it excited universal disgust in
the nation, and was a principal cause that the most limited monarch in Europe, in a single day,
without tumult, violence, or opposition, became one of the most absolute and uncontrolled.

A circumstance which crowns the defects of the Confederation remains yet to be mentioned, the
want of a judiciary power. Laws are a dead letter without courts to expound and define their true
meaning and operation. The treaties of the United States, to have any force at all, must be
considered as part of the law of the land. Their true import, as far as respects individuals, must,
like all other laws, be ascertained by judicial determinations. To produce uniformity in these
determinations, they ought to be submitted, in the last resort, to one SUPREME TRIBUNAL.
And this tribunal ought to be instituted under the same authority which forms the treaties
themselves. These ingredients are both indispensable. If there is in each State a court of final
jurisdiction, there may be as many different final determinations on the same point as there are
courts. There are endless diversities in the opinions of men. We often see not only different
courts but the judges of the came court differing from each other. To avoid the confusion which
would unavoidably result from the contradictory decisions of a number of independent
judicatories, all nations have found it necessary to establish one court paramount to the rest,
possessing a general superintendence, and authorized to settle and declare in the last resort a
uniform rule of civil justice.

This is the more necessary where the frame of the government is so compounded that the laws of
the whole are in danger of being contravened by the laws of the parts. In this case, if the
particular tribunals are invested with a right of ultimate jurisdiction, besides the contradictions to
be expected from difference of opinion, there will be much to fear from the bias of local views
and prejudices, and from the interference of local regulations. As often as such an interference
was to happen, there would be reason to apprehend that the provisions of the particular laws
might be preferred to those of the general laws; for nothing is more natural to men in office than
to look with peculiar deference towards that authority to which they owe their official existence.

The treaties of the United States, under the present Constitution, are liable to the infractions of
thirteen different legislatures, and as many different courts of final jurisdiction, acting under the
authority of those legislatures. The faith, the reputation, the peace of the whole Union, are thus
continually at the mercy of the prejudices, the passions, and the interests of every member of
which it is composed. Is it possible that foreign nations can either respect or confide in such a
government? Is it possible that the people of America will longer consent to trust their honor,
their happiness, their safety, on so precarious a foundation?



                                                                   108
 
                               



In this review of the Confederation, I have confined myself to the exhibition of its most material
defects; passing over those imperfections in its details by which even a great part of the power
intended to be conferred upon it has been in a great measure rendered abortive. It must be by this
time evident to all men of reflection, who can divest themselves of the prepossessions of
preconceived opinions, that it is a system so radically vicious and unsound, as to admit not of
amendment but by an entire change in its leading features and characters.

The organization of Congress is itself utterly improper for the exercise of those powers which are
necessary to be deposited in the Union. A single assembly may be a proper receptacle of those
slender, or rather fettered, authorities, which have been heretofore delegated to the federal head;
but it would be inconsistent with all the principles of good government, to intrust it with those
additional powers which, even the moderate and more rational adversaries of the proposed
Constitution admit, ought to reside in the United States. If that plan should not be adopted, and if
the necessity of the Union should be able to withstand the ambitious aims of those men who may
indulge magnificent schemes of personal aggrandizement from its dissolution, the probability
would be, that we should run into the project of conferring supplementary powers upon
Congress, as they are now constituted; and either the machine, from the intrinsic feebleness of its
structure, will moulder into pieces, in spite of our ill-judged efforts to prop it; or, by successive
augmentations of its force an energy, as necessity might prompt, we shall finally accumulate, in a
single body, all the most important prerogatives of sovereignty, and thus entail upon our
posterity one of the most execrable forms of government that human infatuation ever contrived.
Thus, we should create in reality that very tyranny which the adversaries of the new Constitution
either are, or affect to be, solicitous to avert.

It has not a little contributed to the infirmities of the existing federal system, that it never had a
ratification by the PEOPLE. Resting on no better foundation than the consent of the several
legislatures, it has been exposed to frequent and intricate questions concerning the validity of its
powers, and has, in some instances, given birth to the enormous doctrine of a right of legislative
repeal. Owing its ratification to the law of a State, it has been contended that the same authority
might repeal the law by which it was ratified. However gross a heresy it may be to maintain that
a party to a compact has a right to revoke that compact, the doctrine itself has had respectable
advocates. The possibility of a question of this nature proves the necessity of laying the
foundations of our national government deeper than in the mere sanction of delegated authority.
The fabric of American empire ought to rest on the solid basis of THE CONSENT OF THE
PEOPLE. The streams of national power ought to flow immediately from that pure, original
fountain of all legitimate authority.




                                                                   109
 
                               



Federalist No. 23 - Necessity of a Government as Energetic as the
One Proposed to the Preservation of the Union
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Tuesday, December 18, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

THE necessity of a Constitution, at least equally energetic with the one proposed, to the
preservation of the Union, is the point at the examination of which we are now arrived.

This inquiry will naturally divide itself into three branches — the objects to be provided for by
the federal government, the quantity of power necessary to the accomplishment of those objects,
the persons upon whom that power ought to operate. Its distribution and organization will more
properly claim our attention under the succeeding head.

The principal purposes to be answered by union are these — the common defense of the
members; the preservation of the public peace as well against internal convulsions as external
attacks; the regulation of commerce with other nations and between the States; the
superintendence of our intercourse, political and commercial, with foreign countries.

The authorities essential to the common defense are these: to raise armies; to build and equip
fleets; to prescribe rules for the government of both; to direct their operations; to provide for
their support. These powers ought to exist without limitation, because it is impossible to foresee
or define the extent and variety of national exigencies, or the correspondent extent and variety of
the means which may be necessary to satisfy them. The circumstances that endanger the safety of
nations are infinite, and for this reason no constitutional shackles can wisely be imposed on the
power to which the care of it is committed. This power ought to be coextensive with all the
possible combinations of such circumstances; and ought to be under the direction of the same
councils which are appointed to preside over the common defense.

This is one of those truths which, to a correct and unprejudiced mind, carries its own evidence
along with it; and may be obscured, but cannot be made plainer by argument or reasoning. It
rests upon axioms as simple as they are universal; the means ought to be proportioned to the end;
the persons, from whose agency the attainment of any end is expected, ought to possess the
means by which it is to be attained.

Whether there ought to be a federal government intrusted with the care of the common defense,
is a question in the first instance, open for discussion; but the moment it is decided in the
affirmative, it will follow, that that government ought to be clothed with all the powers requisite
to complete execution of its trust. And unless it can be shown that the circumstances which may
affect the public safety are reducible within certain determinate limits; unless the contrary of this


                                                                  110
 
                              


position can be fairly and rationally disputed, it must be admitted, as a necessary consequence,
that there can be no limitation of that authority which is to provide for the defense and protection
of the community, in any matter essential to its efficacy that is, in any matter essential to the
formation, direction, or support of the NATIONAL FORCES.

Defective as the present Confederation has been proved to be, this principle appears to have been
fully recognized by the framers of it; though they have not made proper or adequate provision for
its exercise. Congress have an unlimited discretion to make requisitions of men and money; to
govern the army and navy; to direct their operations. As their requisitions are made
constitutionally binding upon the States, who are in fact under the most solemn obligations to
furnish the supplies required of them, the intention evidently was that the United States should
command whatever resources were by them judged requisite to the “common defense and
general welfare.” It was presumed that a sense of their true interests, and a regard to the dictates
of good faith, would be found sufficient pledges for the punctual performance of the duty of the
members to the federal head.

The experiment has, however, demonstrated that this expectation was ill-founded and illusory;
and the observations, made under the last head, will, I imagine, have sufficed to convince the
impartial and discerning, that there is an absolute necessity for an entire change in the first
principles of the system; that if we are in earnest about giving the Union energy and duration, we
must abandon the vain project of legislating upon the States in their collective capacities; we
must extend the laws of the federal government to the individual citizens of America; we must
discard the fallacious scheme of quotas and requisitions, as equally impracticable and unjust. The
result from all this is that the Union ought to be invested with full power to levy troops; to build
and equip fleets; and to raise the revenues which will be required for the formation and support
of an army and navy, in the customary and ordinary modes practiced in other governments.

If the circumstances of our country are such as to demand a compound instead of a simple, a
confederate instead of a sole, government, the essential point which will remain to be adjusted
will be to discriminate the OBJECTS, as far as it can be done, which shall appertain to the
different provinces or departments of power; allowing to each the most ample authority for
fulfilling the objects committed to its charge. Shall the Union be constituted the guardian of the
common safety? Are fleets and armies and revenues necessary to this purpose? The government
of the Union must be empowered to pass all laws, and to make all regulations which have
relation to them. The same must be the case in respect to commerce, and to every other matter to
which its jurisdiction is permitted to extend. Is the administration of justice between the citizens
of the same State the proper department of the local governments? These must possess all the
authorities which are connected with this object, and with every other that may be allotted to
their particular cognizance and direction. Not to confer in each case a degree of power
commensurate to the end, would be to violate the most obvious rules of prudence and propriety,
and improvidently to trust the great interests of the nation to hands which are disabled from
managing them with vigor and success.




                                                                 111
 
                              


Who is likely to make suitable provisions for the public defense, as that body to which the
guardianship of the public safety is confided; which, as the centre of information, will best
understand the extent and urgency of the dangers that threaten; as the representative of the
WHOLE, will feel itself most deeply interested in the preservation of every part; which, from the
responsibility implied in the duty assigned to it, will be most sensibly impressed with the
necessity of proper exertions; and which, by the extension of its authority throughout the States,
can alone establish uniformity and concert in the plans and measures by which the common
safety is to be secured? Is there not a manifest inconsistency in devolving upon the federal
government the care of the general defense, and leaving in the State governments the effective
powers by which it is to be provided for? Is not a want of co-operation the infallible consequence
of such a system? And will not weakness, disorder, an undue distribution of the burdens and
calamities of war, an unnecessary and intolerable increase of expense, be its natural and
inevitable concomitants? Have we not had unequivocal experience of its effects in the course of
the revolution which we have just accomplished?

Every view we may take of the subject, as candid inquirers after truth, will serve to convince us,
that it is both unwise and dangerous to deny the federal government an unconfined authority, as
to all those objects which are intrusted to its management. It will indeed deserve the most
vigilant and careful attention of the people, to see that it be modeled in such a manner as to admit
of its being safely vested with the requisite powers. If any plan which has been, or may be,
offered to our consideration, should not, upon a dispassionate inspection, be found to answer this
description, it ought to be rejected. A government, the constitution of which renders it unfit to be
trusted with all the powers which a free people ought to delegate to any government, would be an
unsafe and improper depositary of the NATIONAL INTERESTS. Wherever THESE can with
propriety be confided, the coincident powers may safely accompany them. This is the true result
of all just reasoning upon the subject. And the adversaries of the plan promulgated by the
convention ought to have confined themselves to showing, that the internal structure of the
proposed government was such as to render it unworthy of the confidence of the people. They
ought not to have wandered into inflammatory declamations and unmeaning cavils about the
extent of the powers. The POWERS are not too extensive for the OBJECTS of federal
administration, or, in other words, for the management of our NATIONAL INTERESTS; nor can
any satisfactory argument be framed to show that they are chargeable with such an excess. If it
be true, as has been insinuated by some of the writers on the other side, that the difficulty arises
from the nature of the thing, and that the extent of the country will not permit us to form a
government in which such ample powers can safely be reposed, it would prove that we ought to
contract our views, and resort to the expedient of separate confederacies, which will move within
more practicable spheres. For the absurdity must continually stare us in the face of confiding to a
government the direction of the most essential national interests, without daring to trust it to the
authorities which are indispensible to their proper and efficient management. Let us not attempt
to reconcile contradictions, but firmly embrace a rational alternative.

I trust, however, that the impracticability of one general system cannot be shown. I am greatly
mistaken, if any thing of weight has yet been advanced of this tendency; and I flatter myself, that



                                                                112
 
                              


the observations which have been made in the course of these papers have served to place the
reverse of that position in as clear a light as any matter still in the womb of time and experience
can be susceptible of. This, at all events, must be evident, that the very difficulty itself, drawn
from the extent of the country, is the strongest argument in favor of an energetic government; for
any other can certainly never preserve the Union of so large an empire. If we embrace the tenets
of those who oppose the adoption of the proposed Constitution, as the standard of our political
creed, we cannot fail to verify the gloomy doctrines which predict the impracticability of a
national system pervading entire limits of the present Confederacy.




                                                                113
 
                              



Federalist No. 24 - Powers Necessary to the Common Defense
Further Considered
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, December 19, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

TO THE powers proposed to be conferred upon the federal government, in respect to the creation
and direction of the national forces, I have met with but one specific objection, which, if I
understand it right, is this, that proper provision has not been made against the existence of
standing armies in time of peace; an objection which, I shall now endeavor to show, rests on
weak and unsubstantial foundations.

It has indeed been brought forward in the most vague and general form, supported only by bold
assertions, without the appearance of argument; without even the sanction of theoretical
opinions; in contradiction to the practice of other free nations, and to the general sense of
America, as expressed in most of the existing constitutions. The proprietory of this remark will
appear, the moment it is recollected that the objection under consideration turns upon a supposed
necessity of restraining the LEGISLATIVE authority of the nation, in the article of military
establishments; a principle unheard of, except in one or two of our State constitutions, and
rejected in all the rest.

A stranger to our politics, who was to read our newspapers at the present juncture, without
having previously inspected the plan reported by the convention, would be naturally led to one of
two conclusions: either that it contained a positive injunction, that standing armies should be
kept up in time of peace; or that it vested in the EXECUTIVE the whole power of levying troops,
without subjecting his discretion, in any shape, to the control of the legislature.

If he came afterwards to peruse the plan itself, he would be surprised to discover, that neither the
one nor the other was the case; that the whole power of raising armies was lodged in the
legislature, not in the executive; that this legislature was to be a popular body, consisting of the
representatives of the people periodically elected; and that instead of the provision he had
supposed in favor of standing armies, there was to be found, in respect to this object, an
important qualification even of the legislative discretion, in that clause which forbids the
appropriation of money for the support of an army for any longer period than two years a
precaution which, upon a nearer view of it, will appear to be a great and real security against the
keeping up of troops without evident necessity.

Disappointed in his first surmise, the person I have supposed would be apt to pursue his
conjectures a little further. He would naturally say to himself, it is impossible that all this
vehement and pathetic declamation can be without some colorable pretext. It must needs be that


                                                                 114
 
                               


this people, so jealous of their liberties, have, in all the preceding models of the constitutions
which they have established, inserted the most precise and rigid precautions on this point, the
omission of which, in the new plan, has given birth to all this apprehension and clamor.

If, under this impression, he proceeded to pass in review the several State constitutions, how
great would be his disappointment to find that two only of them1 contained an interdiction of
standing armies in time of peace; that the other eleven had either observed a profound silence on
the subject, or had in express terms admitted the right of the Legislature to authorize their
existence.

Still, however he would be persuaded that there must be some plausible foundation for the cry
raised on this head. He would never be able to imagine, while any source of information
remained unexplored, that it was nothing more than an experiment upon the public credulity,
dictated either by a deliberate intention to deceive, or by the overflowings of a zeal too
intemperate to be ingenuous. It would probably occur to him, that he would be likely to find the
precautions he was in search of in the primitive compact between the States. Here, at length, he
would expect to meet with a solution of the enigma. No doubt, he would observe to himself, the
existing Confederation must contain the most explicit provisions against military establishments
in time of peace; and a departure from this model, in a favorite point, has occasioned the
discontent which appears to influence these political champions.

If he should now apply himself to a careful and critical survey of the articles of Confederation,
his astonishment would not only be increased, but would acquire a mixture of indignation, at the
unexpected discovery, that these articles, instead of containing the prohibition he looked for, and
though they had, with jealous circumspection, restricted the authority of the State legislatures in
this particular, had not imposed a single restraint on that of the United States. If he happened to
be a man of quick sensibility, or ardent temper, he could now no longer refrain from regarding
these clamors as the dishonest artifices of a sinister and unprincipled opposition to a plan which
ought at least to receive a fair and candid examination from all sincere lovers of their country!
How else, he would say, could the authors of them have been tempted to vent such loud censures
upon that plan, about a point in which it seems to have conformed itself to the general sense of
America as declared in its different forms of government, and in which it has even superadded a
new and powerful guard unknown to any of them? If, on the contrary, he happened to be a man
of calm and dispassionate feelings, he would indulge a sigh for the frailty of human nature, and
would lament, that in a matter so interesting to the happiness of millions, the true merits of the
question should be perplexed and entangled by expedients so unfriendly to an impartial and right
determination. Even such a man could hardly forbear remarking, that a conduct of this kind has
too much the appearance of an intention to mislead the people by alarming their passions, rather
than to convince them by arguments addressed to their understandings.

But however little this objection may be countenanced, even by precedents among ourselves, it
may be satisfactory to take a nearer view of its intrinsic merits. From a close examination it will
appear that restraints upon the discretion of the legislature in respect to military establishments in



                                                                   115
 
                              


time of peace, would be improper to be imposed, and if imposed, from the necessities of society,
would be unlikely to be observed.

Though a wide ocean separates the United States from Europe, yet there are various
considerations that warn us against an excess of confidence or security. On one side of us, and
stretching far into our rear, are growing settlements subject to the dominion of Britain. On the
other side, and extending to meet the British settlements, are colonies and establishments subject
to the dominion of Spain. This situation and the vicinity of the West India Islands, belonging to
these two powers create between them, in respect to their American possessions and in relation
to us, a common interest. The savage tribes on our Western frontier ought to be regarded as our
natural enemies, their natural allies, because they have most to fear from us, and most to hope
from them. The improvements in the art of navigation have, as to the facility of communication,
rendered distant nations, in a great measure, neighbors. Britain and Spain are among the
principal maritime powers of Europe. A future concert of views between these nations ought not
to be regarded as improbable. The increasing remoteness of consanguinity is every day
diminishing the force of the family compact between France and Spain. And politicians have
ever with great reason considered the ties of blood as feeble and precarious links of political
connection. These circumstances combined, admonish us not to be too sanguine in considering
ourselves as entirely out of the reach of danger.

Previous to the Revolution, and ever since the peace, there has been a constant necessity for
keeping small garrisons on our Western frontier. No person can doubt that these will continue to
be indispensable, if it should only be against the ravages and depredations of the Indians. These
garrisons must either be furnished by occasional detachments from the militia, or by permanent
corps in the pay of the government. The first is impracticable; and if practicable, would be
pernicious. The militia would not long, if at all, submit to be dragged from their occupations and
families to perform that most disagreeable duty in times of profound peace. And if they could be
prevailed upon or compelled to do it, the increased expense of a frequent rotation of service, and
the loss of labor and disconcertion of the industrious pursuits of individuals, would form
conclusive objections to the scheme. It would be as burdensome and injurious to the public as
ruinous to private citizens. The latter resource of permanent corps in the pay of the government
amounts to a standing army in time of peace; a small one, indeed, but not the less real for being
small. Here is a simple view of the subject, that shows us at once the impropriety of a
constitutional interdiction of such establishments, and the necessity of leaving the matter to the
discretion and prudence of the legislature.

In proportion to our increase in strength, it is probable, nay, it may be said certain, that Britain
and Spain would augment their military establishments in our neighborhood. If we should not be
willing to be exposed, in a naked and defenseless condition, to their insults and encroachments,
we should find it expedient to increase our frontier garrisons in some ratio to the force by which
our Western settlements might be annoyed. There are, and will be, particular posts, the
possession of which will include the command of large districts of territory, and facilitate future
invasions of the remainder. It may be added that some of those posts will be keys to the trade



                                                                 116
 
                              


with the Indian nations. Can any man think it would be wise to leave such posts in a situation to
be at any instant seized by one or the other of two neighboring and formidable powers? To act
this part would be to desert all the usual maxims of prudence and policy.

If we mean to be a commercial people, or even to be secure on our Atlantic side, we must
endeavor, as soon as possible, to have a navy. To this purpose there must be dock-yards and
arsenals; and for the defense of these, fortifications, and probably garrisons. When a nation has
become so powerful by sea that it can protect its dock-yards by its fleets, this supersedes the
necessity of garrisons for that purpose; but where naval establishments are in their infancy,
moderate garrisons will, in all likelihood, be found an indispensable security against descents for
the destruction of the arsenals and dock-yards, and sometimes of the fleet itself.




                                                                117
 
                               



Federalist No. 25 - Powers Necessary to the Common Defense
Further Considered (continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Friday, December 21, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

IT MAY perhaps be urged that the objects enumerated in the preceding number ought to be
provided for by the State governments, under the direction of the Union. But this would be, in
reality, an inversion of the primary principle of our political association, as it would in practice
transfer the care of the common defense from the federal head to the individual members: a
project oppressive to some States, dangerous to all, and baneful to the Confederacy.

The territories of Britain, Spain, and of the Indian nations in our neighborhood do not border on
particular States, but encircle the Union from Maine to Georgia. The danger, though in different
degrees, is therefore common. And the means of guarding against it ought, in like manner, to be
the objects of common councils and of a common treasury. It happens that some States, from
local situation, are more directly exposed. New York is of this class. Upon the plan of separate
provisions, New York would have to sustain the whole weight of the establishments requisite to
her immediate safety, and to the mediate or ultimate protection of her neighbors. This would
neither be equitable as it respected New York nor safe as it respected the other States. Various
inconveniences would attend such a system. The States, to whose lot it might fall to support the
necessary establishments, would be as little able as willing, for a considerable time to come, to
bear the burden of competent provisions. The security of all would thus be subjected to the
parsimony, improvidence, or inability of a part. If the resources of such part becoming more
abundant and extensive, its provisions should be proportionally enlarged, the other States would
quickly take the alarm at seeing the whole military force of the Union in the hands of two or
three of its members, and those probably amongst the most powerful. They would each choose to
have some counterpoise, and pretenses could easily be contrived. In this situation, military
establishments, nourished by mutual jealousy, would be apt to swell beyond their natural or
proper size; and being at the separate disposal of the members, they would be engines for the
abridgment or demolition of the national authority.

Reasons have been already given to induce a supposition that the State governments will too
naturally be prone to a rivalship with that of the Union, the foundation of which will be the love
of power; and that in any contest between the federal head and one of its members the people
will be most apt to unite with their local government. If, in addition to this immense advantage,
the ambition of the members should be stimulated by the separate and independent possession of
military forces, it would afford too strong a temptation and too great a facility to them to make
enterprises upon, and finally to subvert, the constitutional authority of the Union. On the other
hand, the liberty of the people would be less safe in this state of things than in that which left the


                                                                   118
 
                               


national forces in the hands of the national government. As far as an army may be considered as
a dangerous weapon of power, it had better be in those hands of which the people are most likely
to be jealous than in those of which they are least likely to be jealous. For it is a truth, which the
experience of ages has attested, that the people are always most in danger when the means of
injuring their rights are in the possession of those of whom they entertain the least suspicion.

The framers of the existing Confederation, fully aware of the danger to the Union from the
separate possession of military forces by the States, have, in express terms, prohibited them from
having either ships or troops, unless with the consent of Congress. The truth is, that the existence
of a federal government and military establishments under State authority are not less at variance
with each other than a due supply of the federal treasury and the system of quotas and
requisitions.

There are other lights besides those already taken notice of, in which the impropriety of restraints
on the discretion of the national legislature will be equally manifest. The design of the objection,
which has been mentioned, is to preclude standing armies in time of peace, though we have
never been informed how far it is designed the prohibition should extend; whether to raising
armies as well as to keeping them up in a season of tranquillity or not. If it be confined to the
latter it will have no precise signification, and it will be ineffectual for the purpose intended.
When armies are once raised what shall be denominated “keeping them up,” contrary to the
sense of the Constitution? What time shall be requisite to ascertain the violation? Shall it be a
week, a month, a year? Or shall we say they may be continued as long as the danger which
occasioned their being raised continues? This would be to admit that they might be kept up in
time of peace, against threatening or impending danger, which would be at once to deviate from
the literal meaning of the prohibition, and to introduce an extensive latitude of construction. Who
shall judge of the continuance of the danger? This must undoubtedly be submitted to the national
government, and the matter would then be brought to this issue, that the national government, to
provide against apprehended danger, might in the first instance raise troops, and might
afterwards keep them on foot as long as they supposed the peace or safety of the community was
in any degree of jeopardy. It is easy to perceive that a discretion so latitudinary as this would
afford ample room for eluding the force of the provision.

The supposed utility of a provision of this kind can only be founded on the supposed probability,
or at least possibility, of a combination between the executive and the legislative, in some
scheme of usurpation. Should this at any time happen, how easy would it be to fabricate
pretenses of approaching danger! Indian hostilities, instigated by Spain or Britain, would always
be at hand. Provocations to produce the desired appearances might even be given to some foreign
power, and appeased again by timely concessions. If we can reasonably presume such a
combination to have been formed, and that the enterprise is warranted by a sufficient prospect of
success, the army, when once raised, from whatever cause, or on whatever pretext, may be
applied to the execution of the project.




                                                                   119
 
                                


If, to obviate this consequence, it should be resolved to extend the prohibition to the raising of
armies in time of peace, the United States would then exhibit the most extraordinary spectacle
which the world has yet seen, that of a nation incapacitated by its Constitution to prepare for
defense, before it was actually invaded. As the ceremony of a formal denunciation of war has of
late fallen into disuse, the presence of an enemy within our territories must be waited for, as the
legal warrant to the government to begin its levies of men for the protection of the State. We
must receive the blow, before we could even prepare to return it. All that kind of policy by which
nations anticipate distant danger, and meet the gathering storm, must be abstained from, as
contrary to the genuine maxims of a free government. We must expose our property and liberty
to the mercy of foreign invaders, and invite them by our weakness to seize the naked and
defenseless prey, because we are afraid that rulers, created by our choice, dependent on our will,
might endanger that liberty, by an abuse of the means necessary to its preservation.

Here I expect we shall be told that the militia of the country is its natural bulwark, and would be
at all times equal to the national defense. This doctrine, in substance, had like to have lost us our
independence. It cost millions to the United States that might have been saved. The facts which,
from our own experience, forbid a reliance of this kind, are too recent to permit us to be the
dupes of such a suggestion. The steady operations of war against a regular and disciplined army
can only be successfully conducted by a force of the same kind. Considerations of economy, not
less than of stability and vigor, confirm this position. The American militia, in the course of the
late war, have, by their valor on numerous occasions, erected eternal monuments to their fame;
but the bravest of them feel and know that the liberty of their country could not have been
established by their efforts alone, however great and valuable they were. War, like most other
things, is a science to be acquired and perfected by diligence, by perserverance, by time, and by
practice.

All violent policy, as it is contrary to the natural and experienced course of human affairs,
defeats itself. Pennsylvania, at this instant, affords an example of the truth of this remark. The
Bill of Rights of that State declares that standing armies are dangerous to liberty, and ought not
to be kept up in time of peace. Pennsylvania, nevertheless, in a time of profound peace, from the
existence of partial disorders in one or two of her counties, has resolved to raise a body of troops;
and in all probability will keep them up as long as there is any appearance of danger to the public
peace. The conduct of Massachusetts affords a lesson on the same subject, though on different
ground. That State (without waiting for the sanction of Congress, as the articles of the
Confederation require) was compelled to raise troops to quell a domestic insurrection, and still
keeps a corps in pay to prevent a revival of the spirit of revolt. The particular constitution of
Massachusetts opposed no obstacle to the measure; but the instance is still of use to instruct us
that cases are likely to occur under our government, as well as under those of other nations,
which will sometimes render a military force in time of peace essential to the security of the
society, and that it is therefore improper in this respect to control the legislative discretion. It also
teaches us, in its application to the United States, how little the rights of a feeble government are
likely to be respected, even by its own constituents. And it teaches us, in addition to the rest, how
unequal parchment provisions are to a struggle with public necessity.



                                                                     120
 
                              



It was a fundamental maxim of the Lacedaemonian commonwealth, that the post of admiral
should not be conferred twice on the same person. The Peloponnesian confederates, having
suffered a severe defeat at sea from the Athenians, demanded Lysander, who had before served
with success in that capacity, to command the combined fleets. The Lacedaemonians, to gratify
their allies, and yet preserve the semblance of an adherence to their ancient institutions, had
recourse to the flimsy subterfuge of investing Lysander with the real power of admiral, under the
nominal title of vice-admiral. This instance is selected from among a multitude that might be
cited to confirm the truth already advanced and illustrated by domestic examples; which is, that
nations pay little regard to rules and maxims calculated in their very nature to run counter to the
necessities of society. Wise politicians will be cautious about fettering the government with
restrictions that cannot be observed, because they know that every breach of the fundamental
laws, though dictated by necessity, impairs that sacred reverence which ought to be maintained
in the breast of rulers towards the constitution of a country, and forms a precedent for other
breaches where the same plea of necessity does not exist at all, or is less urgent and palpable.




                                                                121
 
                               



Federalist No. 26 - Idea of Restraining the Legislative Authority in
Regard to the Common Defense Considered
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Saturday, December 22, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

IT WAS a thing hardly to be expected that in a popular revolution the minds of men should stop
at that happy mean which marks the salutary boundary between POWER and PRIVILEGE, and
combines the energy of government with the security of private rights. A failure in this delicate
and important point is the great source of the inconveniences we experience, and if we are not
cautious to avoid a repetition of the error, in our future attempts to rectify and ameliorate our
system, we may travel from one chimerical project to another; we may try change after change;
but we shall never be likely to make any material change for the better.

The idea of restraining the legislative authority, in the means of providing for the national
defense, is one of those refinements which owe their origin to a zeal for liberty more ardent than
enlightened. We have seen, however, that it has not had thus far an extensive prevalency; that
even in this country, where it made its first appearance, Pennsylvania and North Carolina are the
only two States by which it has been in any degree patronized; and that all the others have
refused to give it the least countenance; wisely judging that confidence must be placed
somewhere; that the necessity of doing it, is implied in the very act of delegating power; and that
it is better to hazard the abuse of that confidence than to embarrass the government and endanger
the public safety by impolitic restrictions on the legislative authority. The opponents of the
proposed Constitution combat, in this respect, the general decision of America; and instead of
being taught by experience the propriety of correcting any extremes into which we may have
heretofore run, they appear disposed to conduct us into others still more dangerous, and more
extravagant. As if the tone of government had been found too high, or too rigid, the doctrines
they teach are calculated to induce us to depress or to relax it, by expedients which, upon other
occasions, have been condemned or forborne. It may be affirmed without the imputation of
invective, that if the principles they inculcate, on various points, could so far obtain as to become
the popular creed, they would utterly unfit the people of this country for any species of
government whatever. But a danger of this kind is not to be apprehended. The citizens of
America have too much discernment to be argued into anarchy. And I am much mistaken, if
experience has not wrought a deep and solemn conviction in the public mind, that greater energy
of government is essential to the welfare and prosperity of the community.

It may not be amiss in this place concisely to remark the origin and progress of the idea, which
aims at the exclusion of military establishments in time of peace. Though in speculative minds it
may arise from a contemplation of the nature and tendency of such institutions, fortified by the
events that have happened in other ages and countries, yet as a national sentiment, it must be


                                                                  122
 
                               


traced to those habits of thinking which we derive from the nation from whom the inhabitants of
these States have in general sprung.

In England, for a long time after the Norman Conquest, the authority of the monarch was almost
unlimited. Inroads were gradually made upon the prerogative, in favor of liberty, first by the
barons, and afterwards by the people, till the greatest part of its most formidable pretensions
became extinct. But it was not till the revolution in 1688, which elevated the Prince of Orange to
the throne of Great Britain, that English liberty was completely triumphant. As incident to the
undefined power of making war, an acknowledged prerogative of the crown, Charles II. had, by
his own authority, kept on foot in time of peace a body of 5,000 regular troops. And this number
James II. increased to 30,000; who were paid out of his civil list. At the revolution, to abolish the
exercise of so dangerous an authority, it became an article of the Bill of Rights then framed, that
“the raising or keeping a standing army within the kingdom in time of peace, unless with the
consent of parliament, was against law.”

In that kingdom, when the pulse of liberty was at its highest pitch, no security against the danger
of standing armies was thought requisite, beyond a prohibition of their being raised or kept up by
the mere authority of the executive magistrate. The patriots, who effected that memorable
revolution, were too temperate, too well informed, to think of any restraint on the legislative
discretion. They were aware that a certain number of troops for guards and garrisons were
indispensable; that no precise bounds could be set to the national exigencies; that a power equal
to every possible contingency must exist somewhere in the government: and that when they
referred the exercise of that power to the judgment of the legislature, they had arrived at the
ultimate point of precaution which was reconcilable with the safety of the community.

From the same source, the people of America may be said to have derived an hereditary
impression of danger to liberty, from standing armies in time of peace. The circumstances of a
revolution quickened the public sensibility on every point connected with the security of popular
rights, and in some instances raise the warmth of our zeal beyond the degree which consisted
with the due temperature of the body politic. The attempts of two of the States to restrict the
authority of the legislature in the article of military establishments, are of the number of these
instances. The principles which had taught us to be jealous of the power of an hereditary
monarch were by an injudicious excess extended to the representatives of the people in their
popular assemblies. Even in some of the States, where this error was not adopted, we find
unnecessary declarations that standing armies ought not to be kept up, in time of peace,
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF THE LEGISLATURE. I call them unnecessary, because the
reason which had introduced a similar provision into the English Bill of Rights is not applicable
to any of the State constitutions. The power of raising armies at all, under those constitutions,
can by no construction be deemed to reside anywhere else, than in the legislatures themselves;
and it was superfluous, if not absurd, to declare that a matter should not be done without the
consent of a body, which alone had the power of doing it. Accordingly, in some of these
constitutions, and among others, in that of this State of New York, which has been justly




                                                                  123
 
                               


celebrated, both in Europe and America, as one of the best of the forms of government
established in this country, there is a total silence upon the subject.

It is remarkable, that even in the two States which seem to have meditated an interdiction of
military establishments in time of peace, the mode of expression made use of is rather cautionary
than prohibitory. It is not said, that standing armies shall not BE kept up, but that they ought not
to be kept up, in time of peace. This ambiguity of terms appears to have been the result of a
conflict between jealousy and conviction; between the desire of excluding such establishments at
all events, and the persuasion that an absolute exclusion would be unwise and unsafe.

Can it be doubted that such a provision, whenever the situation of public affairs was understood
to require a departure from it, would be interpreted by the legislature into a mere admonition, and
would be made to yield to the necessities or supposed necessities of the State? Let the fact
already mentioned, with respect to Pennsylvania, decide. What then (it may be asked) is the use
of such a provision, if it cease to operate the moment there is an inclination to disregard it?

Let us examine whether there be any comparison, in point of efficacy, between the provision
alluded to and that which is contained in the new Constitution, for restraining the appropriations
of money for military purposes to the period of two years. The former, by aiming at too much, is
calculated to effect nothing; the latter, by steering clear of an imprudent extreme, and by being
perfectly compatible with a proper provision for the exigencies of the nation, will have a salutary
and powerful operation.

The legislature of the United States will be obliged, by this provision, once at least in every two
years, to deliberate upon the propriety of keeping a military force on foot; to come to a new
resolution on the point; and to declare their sense of the matter, by a formal vote in the face of
their constituents. They are not at liberty to vest in the executive department permanent funds for
the support of an army, if they were even incautious enough to be willing to repose in it so
improper a confidence. As the spirit of party, in different degrees, must be expected to infect all
political bodies, there will be, no doubt, persons in the national legislature willing enough to
arraign the measures and criminate the views of the majority. The provision for the support of a
military force will always be a favorable topic for declamation. As often as the question comes
forward, the public attention will be roused and attracted to the subject, by the party in
opposition; and if the majority should be really disposed to exceed the proper limits, the
community will be warned of the danger, and will have an opportunity of taking measures to
guard against it. Independent of parties in the national legislature itself, as often as the period of
discussion arrived, the State legislatures, who will always be not only vigilant but suspicious and
jealous guardians of the rights of the citizens against encroachments from the federal
government, will constantly have their attention awake to the conduct of the national rulers, and
will be ready enough, if any thing improper appears, to sound the alarm to the people, and not
only to be the VOICE, but, if necessary, the ARM of their discontent.




                                                                   124
 
                                


Schemes to subvert the liberties of a great community require time to mature them for execution.
An army, so large as seriously to menace those liberties, could only be formed by progressive
augmentations; which would suppose, not merely a temporary combination between the
legislature and executive, but a continued conspiracy for a series of time. Is it probable that such
a combination would exist at all? Is it probable that it would be persevered in, and transmitted
along through all the successive variations in a representative body, which biennial elections
would naturally produce in both houses? Is it presumable, that every man, the instant he took his
seat in the national Senate or House of Representatives, would commence a traitor to his
constituents and to his country? Can it be supposed that there would not be found one man,
discerning enough to detect so atrocious a conspiracy, or bold or honest enough to apprise his
constituents of their danger? If such presumptions can fairly be made, there ought at once to be
an end of all delegated authority. The people should resolve to recall all the powers they have
heretofore parted with out of their own hands, and to divide themselves into as many States as
there are counties, in order that they may be able to manage their own concerns in person.

If such suppositions could even be reasonably made, still the concealment of the design, for any
duration, would be impracticable. It would be announced, by the very circumstance of
augmenting the army to so great an extent in time of profound peace. What colorable reason
could be assigned, in a country so situated, for such vast augmentations of the military force? It
is impossible that the people could be long deceived; and the destruction of the project, and of
the projectors, would quickly follow the discovery.

It has been said that the provision which limits the appropriation of money for the support of an
army to the period of two years would be unavailing, because the Executive, when once
possessed of a force large enough to awe the people into submission, would find resources in that
very force sufficient to enable him to dispense with supplies from the acts of the legislature. But
the question again recurs, upon what pretense could he be put in possession of a force of that
magnitude in time of peace? If we suppose it to have been created in consequence of some
domestic insurrection or foreign war, then it becomes a case not within the principles of the
objection; for this is levelled against the power of keeping up troops in time of peace. Few
persons will be so visionary as seriously to contend that military forces ought not to be raised to
quell a rebellion or resist an invasion; and if the defense of the community under such
circumstances should make it necessary to have an army so numerous as to hazard its liberty, this
is one of those calamaties for which there is neither preventative nor cure. It cannot be provided
against by any possible form of government; it might even result from a simple league offensive
and defensive, if it should ever be necessary for the confederates or allies to form an army for
common defense.

But it is an evil infinitely less likely to attend us in a united than in a disunited state; nay, it may
be safely asserted that it is an evil altogether unlikely to attend us in the latter situation. It is not
easy to conceive a possibility that dangers so formidable can assail the whole Union, as to
demand a force considerable enough to place our liberties in the least jeopardy, especially if we
take into our view the aid to be derived from the militia, which ought always to be counted upon



                                                                      125
 
                              


as a valuable and powerful auxiliary. But in a state of disunion (as has been fully shown in
another place), the contrary of this supposition would become not only probable, but almost
unavoidable.




                                                              126
 
                               



Federalist No. 27 - Idea of Restraining the Legislative Authority in
Regard to the Common Defense Considered (continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Tuesday, December 25, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

IT HAS been urged, in different shapes, that a Constitution of the kind proposed by the
convention cannot operate without the aid of a military force to execute its laws. This, however,
like most other things that have been alleged on that side, rests on mere general assertion,
unsupported by any precise or intelligible designation of the reasons upon which it is founded.
As far as I have been able to divine the latent meaning of the objectors, it seems to originate in a
presupposition that the people will be disinclined to the exercise of federal authority in any
matter of an internal nature. Waiving any exception that might be taken to the inaccuracy or
inexplicitness of the distinction between internal and external, let us inquire what ground there is
to presuppose that disinclination in the people. Unless we presume at the same time that the
powers of the general government will be worse administered than those of the State
government, there seems to be no room for the presumption of ill-will, disaffection, or
opposition in the people. I believe it may be laid down as a general rule that their confidence in
and obedience to a government will commonly be proportioned to the goodness or badness of its
administration. It must be admitted that there are exceptions to this rule; but these exceptions
depend so entirely on accidental causes, that they cannot be considered as having any relation to
the intrinsic merits or demerits of a constitution. These can only be judged of by general
principles and maxims.

Various reasons have been suggested, in the course of these papers, to induce a probability that
the general government will be better administered than the particular governments; the principal
of which reasons are that the extension of the spheres of election will present a greater option, or
latitude of choice, to the people; that through the medium of the State legislatures which are
select bodies of men, and which are to appoint the members of the national Senate there is reason
to expect that this branch will generally be composed with peculiar care and judgment; that these
circumstances promise greater knowledge and more extensive information in the national
councils, and that they will be less apt to be tainted by the spirit of faction, and more out of the
reach of those occasional ill-humors, or temporary prejudices and propensities, which, in smaller
societies, frequently contaminate the public councils, beget injustice and oppression of a part of
the community, and engender schemes which, though they gratify a momentary inclination or
desire, terminate in general distress, dissatisfaction, and disgust. Several additional reasons of
considerable force, to fortify that probability, will occur when we come to survey, with a more
critical eye, the interior structure of the edifice which we are invited to erect. It will be sufficient
here to remark, that until satisfactory reasons can be assigned to justify an opinion, that the
federal government is likely to be administered in such a manner as to render it odious or


                                                                    127
 
                              


contemptible to the people, there can be no reasonable foundation for the supposition that the
laws of the Union will meet with any greater obstruction from them, or will stand in need of any
other methods to enforce their execution, than the laws of the particular members.

The hope of impunity is a strong incitement to sedition; the dread of punishment, a
proportionably strong discouragement to it. Will not the government of the Union, which, if
possessed of a due degree of power, can call to its aid the collective resources of the whole
Confederacy, be more likely to repress the former sentiment and to inspire the latter, than that of
a single State, which can only command the resources within itself? A turbulent faction in a State
may easily suppose itself able to contend with the friends to the government in that State; but it
can hardly be so infatuated as to imagine itself a match for the combined efforts of the Union. If
this reflection be just, there is less danger of resistance from irregular combinations of
individuals to the authority of the Confederacy than to that of a single member.

I will, in this place, hazard an observation, which will not be the less just because to some it may
appear new; which is, that the more the operations of the national authority are intermingled in
the ordinary exercise of government, the more the citizens are accustomed to meet with it in the
common occurrences of their political life, the more it is familiarized to their sight and to their
feelings, the further it enters into those objects which touch the most sensible chords and put in
motion the most active springs of the human heart, the greater will be the probability that it will
conciliate the respect and attachment of the community. Man is very much a creature of habit. A
thing that rarely strikes his senses will generally have but little influence upon his mind. A
government continually at a distance and out of sight can hardly be expected to interest the
sensations of the people. The inference is, that the authority of the Union, and the affections of
the citizens towards it, will be strengthened, rather than weakened, by its extension to what are
called matters of internal concern; and will have less occasion to recur to force, in proportion to
the familiarity and comprehensiveness of its agency. The more it circulates through those
channls and currents in which the passions of mankind naturally flow, the less will it require the
aid of the violent and perilous expedients of compulsion.

One thing, at all events, must be evident, that a government like the one proposed would bid
much fairer to avoid the necessity of using force, than that species of league contend for by most
of its opponents; the authority of which should only operate upon the States in their political or
collective capacities. It has been shown that in such a Confederacy there can be no sanction for
the laws but force; that frequent delinquencies in the members are the natural offspring of the
very frame of the government; and that as often as these happen, they can only be redressed, if at
all, by war and violence.

The plan reported by the convention, by extending the authority of the federal head to the
individual citizens of the several States, will enable the government to employ the ordinary
magistracy of each, in the execution of its laws. It is easy to perceive that this will tend to
destroy, in the common apprehension, all distinction between the sources from which they might
proceed; and will give the federal government the same advantage for securing a due obedience



                                                                 128
 
                              


to its authority which is enjoyed by the government of each State, in addition to the influence on
public opinion which will result from the important consideration of its having power to call to
its assistance and support the resources of the whole Union. It merits particular attention in this
place, that the laws of the Confederacy, as to the enumerated and legitimate objects of its
jurisdiction, will become the SUPREME LAW of the land; to the observance of which all
officers, legislative, executive, and judicial, in each State, will be bound by the sanctity of an
oath. Thus the legislatures, courts, and magistrates, of the respective members, will be
incorporated into the operations of the national government as far as its just and constitutional
authority extends; and will be rendered auxiliary to the enforcement of its laws. Any man who
will pursue, by his own reflections, the consequences of this situation, will perceive that there is
good ground to calculate upon a regular and peaceable execution of the laws of the Union, if its
powers are administered with a common share of prudence. If we will arbitrarily suppose the
contrary, we may deduce any inferences we please from the supposition; for it is certainly
possible, by an injudicious exercise of the authorities of the best government that ever was, or
ever can be instituted, to provoke and precipitate the people into the wildest excesses. But though
the adversaries of the proposed Constitution should presume that the national rulers would be
insensible to the motives of public good, or to the obligations of duty, I would still ask them how
the interests of ambition, or the views of encroachment, can be promoted by such a conduct?




                                                                129
 
                               



Federalist No. 28 - Idea of Restraining the Legislative Authority in
Regard to the Common Defense Considered (continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Friday, December 26, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

THAT there may happen cases in which the national government may be necessitated to resort to
force, cannot be denied. Our own experience has corroborated the lessons taught by the examples
of other nations; that emergencies of this sort will sometimes arise in all societies, however
constituted; that seditions and insurrections are, unhappily, maladies as inseparable from the
body politic as tumors and eruptions from the natural body; that the idea of governing at all times
by the simple force of law (which we have been told is the only admissible principle of
republican government), has no place but in the reveries of those political doctors whose sagacity
disdains the admonitions of experimental instruction.

Should such emergencies at any time happen under the national government, there could be no
remedy but force. The means to be employed must be proportioned to the extent of the mischief.
If it should be a slight commotion in a small part of a State, the militia of the residue would be
adequate to its suppression; and the national presumption is that they would be ready to do their
duty. An insurrection, whatever may be its immediate cause, eventually endangers all
government. Regard to the public peace, if not to the rights of the Union, would engage the
citizens to whom the contagion had not communicated itself to oppose the insurgents; and if the
general government should be found in practice conducive to the prosperity and felicity of the
people, it were irrational to believe that they would be disinclined to its support.

If, on the contrary, the insurrection should pervade a whole State, or a principal part of it, the
employment of a different kind of force might become unavoidable. It appears that
Massachusetts found it necessary to raise troops for repressing the disorders within that State;
that Pennsylvania, from the mere apprehension of commotions among a part of her citizens, has
thought proper to have recourse to the same measure. Suppose the State of New York had been
inclined to re-establish her lost jurisdiction over the inhabitants of Vermont, could she have
hoped for success in such an enterprise from the efforts of the militia alone? Would she not have
been compelled to raise and to maintain a more regular force for the execution of her design? If it
must then be admitted that the necessity of recurring to a force different from the militia, in cases
of this extraordinary nature, is applicable to the State governments themselves, why should the
possibility, that the national government might be under a like necessity, in similar extremities,
be made an objection to its existence? Is it not surprising that men who declare an attachment to
the Union in the abstract, should urge as an objection to the proposed Constitution what applies
with tenfold weight to the plan for which they contend; and what, as far as it has any foundation
in truth, is an inevitable consequence of civil society upon an enlarged scale? Who would not


                                                                 130
 
                                


prefer that possibility to the unceasing agitations and frequent revolutions which are the
continual scourges of petty republics?

Let us pursue this examination in another light. Suppose, in lieu of one general system, two, or
three, or even four Confederacies were to be formed, would not the same difficulty oppose itself
to the operations of either of these Confederacies? Would not each of them be exposed to the
same casualties; and when these happened, be obliged to have recourse to the same expedients
for upholding its authority which are objected to in a government for all the States? Would the
militia, in this supposition, be more ready or more able to support the federal authority than in
the case of a general union? All candid and intelligent men must, upon due consideration,
acknowledge that the principle of the objection is equally applicable to either of the two cases;
and that whether we have one government for all the States, or different governments for
different parcels of them, or even if there should be an entire separation of the States, there might
sometimes be a necessity to make use of a force constituted differently from the militia, to
preserve the peace of the community and to maintain the just authority of the laws against those
violent invasions of them which amount to insurrections and rebellions.

Independent of all other reasonings upon the subject, it is a full answer to those who require a
more peremptory provision against military establishments in time of peace, to say that the
whole power of the proposed government is to be in the hands of the representatives of the
people. This is the essential, and, after all, only efficacious security for the rights and privileges
of the people, which is attainable in civil society.

If the representatives of the people betray their constituents, there is then no resource left but in
the exertion of that original right of self-defense which is paramount to all positive forms of
government, and which against the usurpations of the national rulers, may be exerted with
infinitely better prospect of success than against those of the rulers of an individual state. In a
single state, if the persons intrusted with supreme power become usurpers, the different parcels,
subdivisions, or districts of which it consists, having no distinct government in each, can take no
regular measures for defense. The citizens must rush tumultuously to arms, without concert,
without system, without resource; except in their courage and despair. The usurpers, clothed with
the forms of legal authority, can too often crush the opposition in embryo. The smaller the extent
of the territory, the more difficult will it be for the people to form a regular or systematic plan of
opposition, and the more easy will it be to defeat their early efforts. Intelligence can be more
speedily obtained of their preparations and movements, and the military force in the possession
of the usurpers can be more rapidly directed against the part where the opposition has begun. In
this situation there must be a peculiar coincidence of circumstances to insure success to the
popular resistance.

The obstacles to usurpation and the facilities of resistance increase with the increased extent of
the state, provided the citizens understand their rights and are disposed to defend them. The
natural strength of the people in a large community, in proportion to the artificial strength of the
government, is greater than in a small, and of course more competent to a struggle with the



                                                                    131
 
                               


attempts of the government to establish a tyranny. But in a confederacy the people, without
exaggeration, may be said to be entirely the masters of their own fate. Power being almost
always the rival of power, the general government will at all times stand ready to check the
usurpations of the state governments, and these will have the same disposition towards the
general government. The people, by throwing themselves into either scale, will infallibly make it
preponderate. If their rights are invaded by either, they can make use of the other as the
instrument of redress. How wise will it be in them by cherishing the union to preserve to
themselves an advantage which can never be too highly prized!

It may safely be received as an axiom in our political system, that the State governments will, in
all possible contingencies, afford complete security against invasions of the public liberty by the
national authority. Projects of usurpation cannot be masked under pretenses so likely to escape
the penetration of select bodies of men, as of the people at large. The legislatures will have better
means of information. They can discover the danger at a distance; and possessing all the organs
of civil power, and the confidence of the people, they can at once adopt a regular plan of
opposition, in which they can combine all the resources of the community. They can readily
communicate with each other in the different States, and unite their common forces for the
protection of their common liberty.

The great extent of the country is a further security. We have already experienced its utility
against the attacks of a foreign power. And it would have precisely the same effect against the
enterprises of ambitious rulers in the national councils. If the federal army should be able to quell
the resistance of one State, the distant States would have it in their power to make head with
fresh forces. The advantages obtained in one place must be abandoned to subdue the opposition
in others; and the moment the part which had been reduced to submission was left to itself, its
efforts would be renewed, and its resistance revive.

We should recollect that the extent of the military force must, at all events, be regulated by the
resources of the country. For a long time to come, it will not be possible to maintain a large
army; and as the means of doing this increase, the population and natural strength of the
community will proportionably increase. When will the time arrive that the federal government
can raise and maintain an army capable of erecting a despotism over the great body of the people
of an immense empire, who are in a situation, through the medium of their State governments, to
take measures for their own defense, with all the celerity, regularity, and system of independent
nations? The apprehension may be considered as a disease, for which there can be found no cure
in the resources of argument and reasoning.




                                                                  132
 
                               



Federalist No. 29 - Concerning the Militia
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, January 9, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE power of regulating the militia, and of commanding its services in times of insurrection and
invasion are natural incidents to the duties of superintending the common defense, and of
watching over the internal peace of the Confederacy.

It requires no skill in the science of war to discern that uniformity in the organization and
discipline of the militia would be attended with the most beneficial effects, whenever they were
called into service for the public defense. It would enable them to discharge the duties of the
camp and of the field with mutual intelligence and concert an advantage of peculiar moment in
the operations of an army; and it would fit them much sooner to acquire the degree of
proficiency in military functions which would be essential to their usefulness. This desirable
uniformity can only be accomplished by confiding the regulation of the militia to the direction of
the national authority. It is, therefore, with the most evident propriety, that the plan of the
convention proposes to empower the Union "to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining
the militia, and for governing such part of them as may be employed in the service of the United
States, reserving to the states respectively the appointment of the officers, and the authority of
training the militia according to the discipline prescribed by congress."

Of the different grounds which have been taken in opposition to the plan of the convention, there
is none that was so little to have been expected, or is so untenable in itself, as the one from which
this particular provision has been attacked. If a well-regulated militia be the most natural defense
of a free country, it ought certainly to be under the regulation and at the disposal of that body
which is constituted the guardian of the national security. If standing armies are dangerous to
liberty, an efficacious power over the militia, in the body to whose care the protection of the
State is committed, ought, as far as possible, to take away the inducement and the pretext to such
unfriendly institutions. If the federal government can command the aid of the militia in those
emergencies which call for the military arm in support of the civil magistrate, it can the better
dispense with the employment of a different kind of force. If it cannot avail itself of the former, it
will be obliged to recur to the latter. To render an army unnecessary, will be a more certain
method of preventing its existence than a thousand prohibitions upon paper.

In order to cast an odium upon the power of calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the
Union, it has been remarked that there is nowhere any provision in the proposed Constitution for
calling out the POSSE COMITATUS, to assist the magistrate in the execution of his duty,
whence it has been inferred, that military force was intended to be his only auxiliary. There is a
striking incoherence in the objections which have appeared, and sometimes even from the same



                                                                  133
 
                               


quarter, not much calculated to inspire a very favorable opinion of the sincerity or fair dealing of
their authors. The same persons who tell us in one breath, that the powers of the federal
government will be despotic and unlimited, inform us in the next, that it has not authority
sufficient even to call out the POSSE COMITATUS. The latter, fortunately, is as much short of
the truth as the former exceeds it. It would be as absurd to doubt, that a right to pass all laws
necessary and proper to execute its declared powers, would include that of requiring the
assistance of the citizens to the officers who may be intrusted with the execution of those laws,
as it would be to believe, that a right to enact laws necessary and proper for the imposition and
collection of taxes would involve that of varying the rules of descent and of the alienation of
landed property, or of abolishing the trial by jury in cases relating to it. It being therefore evident
that the supposition of a want of power to require the aid of the POSSE COMITATUS is entirely
destitute of color, it will follow, that the conclusion which has been drawn from it, in its
application to the authority of the federal government over the militia, is as uncandid as it is
illogical. What reason could there be to infer, that force was intended to be the sole instrument of
authority, merely because there is a power to make use of it when necessary? What shall we
think of the motives which could induce men of sense to reason in this manner? How shall we
prevent a conflict between charity and conviction?

By a curious refinement upon the spirit of republican jealousy, we are even taught to apprehend
danger from the militia itself, in the hands of the federal government. It is observed that select
corps may be formed, composed of the young and ardent, who may be rendered subservient to
the views of arbitrary power. What plan for the regulation of the militia may be pursued by the
national government, is impossible to be foreseen. But so far from viewing the matter in the
same light with those who object to select corps as dangerous, were the Constitution ratified, and
were I to deliver my sentiments to a member of the federal legislature from this State on the
subject of a militia establishment, I should hold to him, in substance, the following discourse:

“The project of disciplining all the militia of the United States is as futile as it would be
injurious, if it were capable of being carried into execution. A tolerable expertness in military
movements is a business that requires time and practice. It is not a day, or even a week, that will
suffice for the attainment of it. To oblige the great body of the yeomanry, and of the other classes
of the citizens, to be under arms for the purpose of going through military exercises and
evolutions, as often as might be necessary to acquire the degree of perfection which would entitle
them to the character of a well-regulated militia, would be a real grievance to the people, and a
serious public inconvenience and loss. It would form an annual deduction from the productive
labor of the country, to an amount which, calculating upon the present numbers of the people,
would not fall far short of the whole expense of the civil establishments of all the States. To
attempt a thing which would abridge the mass of labor and industry to so considerable an extent,
would be unwise: and the experiment, if made, could not succeed, because it would not long be
endured. Little more can reasonably be aimed at, with respect to the people at large, than to have
them properly armed and equipped; and in order to see that this be not neglected, it will be
necessary to assemble them once or twice in the course of a year.




                                                                   134
 
                                


“But though the scheme of disciplining the whole nation must be abandoned as mischievous or
impracticable; yet it is a matter of the utmost importance that a well-digested plan should, as
soon as possible, be adopted for the proper establishment of the militia. The attention of the
government ought particularly to be directed to the formation of a select corps of moderate
extent, upon such principles as will really fit them for service in case of need. By thus
circumscribing the plan, it will be possible to have an excellent body of well-trained militia,
ready to take the field whenever the defense of the State shall require it. This will not only lessen
the call for military establishments, but if circumstances should at any time oblige the
government to form an army of any magnitude that army can never be formidable to the liberties
of the people while there is a large body of citizens, little, if at all, inferior to them in discipline
and the use of arms, who stand ready to defend their own rights and those of their fellow-
citizens. This appears to me the only substitute that can be devised for a standing army, and the
best possible security against it, if it should exist.”

Thus differently from the adversaries of the proposed Constitution should I reason on the same
subject, deducing arguments of safety from the very sources which they represent as fraught with
danger and perdition. But how the national legislature may reason on the point, is a thing which
neither they nor I can foresee.

There is something so far-fetched and so extravagant in the idea of danger to liberty from the
militia, that one is at a loss whether to treat it with gravity or with raillery; whether to consider it
as a mere trial of skill, like the paradoxes of rhetoricians; as a disingenuous artifice to instil
prejudices at any price; or as the serious offspring of political fanaticism. Where in the name of
common-sense, are our fears to end if we may not trust our sons, our brothers, our neighbors, our
fellow-citizens? What shadow of danger can there be from men who are daily mingling with the
rest of their countrymen and who participate with them in the same feelings, sentiments, habits
and interests? What reasonable cause of apprehension can be inferred from a power in the Union
to prescribe regulations for the militia, and to command its services when necessary, while the
particular States are to have the sole and exclusive appointment of the officers? If it were
possible seriously to indulge a jealousy of the militia upon any conceivable establishment under
the federal government, the circumstance of the officers being in the appointment of the States
ought at once to extinguish it. There can be no doubt that this circumstance will always secure to
them a preponderating influence over the militia.

In reading many of the publications against the Constitution, a man is apt to imagine that he is
perusing some ill-written tale or romance, which instead of natural and agreeable images,
exhibits to the mind nothing but frightful and distorted shapes –

"Gorgons, hydras, and chimeras dire";

discoloring and disfiguring whatever it represents, and transforming everything it touches into a
monster.




                                                                    135
 
                               


A sample of this is to be observed in the exaggerated and improbable suggestions which have
taken place respecting the power of calling for the services of the militia. That of New
Hampshire is to be marched to Georgia, of Georgia to New Hampshire, of New York to
Kentucky, and of Kentucky to Lake Champlain. Nay, the debts due to the French and Dutch are
to be paid in militiamen instead of louis d’ors and ducats. At one moment there is to be a large
army to lay prostrate the liberties of the people; at another moment the militia of Virginia are to
be dragged from their homes five or six hundred miles, to tame the republican contumacy of
Massachusetts; and that of Massachusetts is to be transported an equal distance to subdue the
refractory haughtiness of the aristocratic Virginians. Do the persons who rave at this rate imagine
that their art or their eloquence can impose any conceits or absurdities upon the people of
America for infallible truths?

If there should be an army to be made use of as the engine of despotism, what need of the
militia? If there should be no army, whither would the militia, irritated by being called upon to
undertake a distant and hopeless expedition, for the purpose of riveting the chains of slavery
upon a part of their countrymen, direct their course, but to the seat of the tyrants, who had
meditated so foolish as well as so wicked a project, to crush them in their imagined
intrenchments of power, and to make them an example of the just vengeance of an abused and
incensed people? Is this the way in which usurpers stride to dominion over a numerous and
enlightened nation? Do they begin by exciting the detestation of the very instruments of their
intended usurpations? Do they usually commence their career by wanton and disgustful acts of
power, calculated to answer no end, but to draw upon themselves universal hatred and
execration? Are suppositions of this sort the sober admonitions of discerning patriots to a
discerning people? Or are they the inflammatory ravings of incendiaries or distempered
enthusiasts? If we were even to suppose the national rulers actuated by the most ungovernable
ambition, it is impossible to believe that they would employ such preposterous means to
accomplish their designs.

In times of insurrection, or invasion, it would be natural and proper that the militia of a
neighboring State should be marched into another, to resist a common enemy, or to guard the
republic against the violence of faction or sedition. This was frequently the case, in respect to the
first object, in the course of the late war; and this mutual succor is, indeed, a principal end of our
political association. If the power of affording it be placed under the direction of the Union, there
will be no danger of a supine and listless inattention to the dangers of a neighbor, till its near
approach had superadded the incitements of self-preservation to the too feeble impulses of duty
and sympathy.




                                                                  136
 
                              



Federalist No. 30 - Concerning the General Power of Taxation
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Friday, December 28, 1787

To the People of the State of New York:

IT HAS been already observed that the federal government ought to possess the power of
providing for the support of the national forces; in which proposition was intended to be included
the expense of raising troops, of building and equipping fleets, and all other expenses in any wise
connected with military arrangements and operations. But these are not the only objects to which
the jurisdiction of the Union, in respect to revenue, must necessarily be empowered to extend. It
must embrace a provision for the support of the national civil list; for the payment of the national
debts contracted, or that may be contracted; and, in general, for all those matters which will call
for disbursements out of the national treasury. The conclusion is, that there must be interwoven,
in the frame of the government, a general power of taxation, in one shape or another.

Money is, with propriety, considered as the vital principle of the body politic; as that which
sustains its life and motion, and enables it to perform its most essential functions. A complete
power, therefore, to procure a regular and adequate supply of it, as far as the resources of the
community will permit, may be regarded as an indispensable ingredient in every constitution.
From a deficiency in this particular, one of two evils must ensue; either the people must be
subjected to continual plunder, as a substitute for a more eligible mode of supplying the public
wants, or the government must sink into a fatal atrophy, and, in a short course of time, perish.

In the Ottoman or Turkish empire, the sovereign, though in other respects absolute master of the
lives and fortunes of his subjects, has no right to impose a new tax. The consequence is that he
permits the bashaws or governors of provinces to pillage the people without mercy; and, in turn,
squeezes out of them the sums of which he stands in need, to satisfy his own exigencies and
those of the state. In America, from a like cause, the government of the Union has gradually
dwindled into a state of decay, approaching nearly to annihilation. Who can doubt, that the
happiness of the people in both countries would be promoted by competent authorities in the
proper hands, to provide the revenues which the necessities of the public might require?

The present Confederation, feeble as it is intended to repose in the United States, an unlimited
power of providing for the pecuniary wants of the Union. But proceeding upon an erroneous
principle, it has been done in such a manner as entirely to have frustrated the intention. Congress,
by the articles which compose that compact (as has already been stated), are authorized to
ascertain and call for any sums of money necessary, in their judgment, to the service of the
United States; and their requisitions, if conformable to the rule of apportionment, are in every
constitutional sense obligatory upon the States. These have no right to question the propriety of
the demand; no discretion beyond that of devising the ways and means of furnishing the sums



                                                                137
 
                               


demanded. But though this be strictly and truly the case; though the assumption of such a right
would be an infringement of the articles of Union; though it may seldom or never have been
avowedly claimed, yet in practice it has been constantly exercised, and would continue to be so,
as long as the revenues of the Confederacy should remain dependent on the intermediate agency
of its members. What the consequences of this system have been, is within the knowledge of
every man the least conversant in our public affairs, and has been amply unfolded in different
parts of these inquiries. It is this which has chiefly contributed to reduce us to a situation, which
affords ample cause both of mortification to ourselves, and of triumph to our enemies.

What remedy can there be for this situation, but in a change of the system which has produced it
in a change of the fallacious and delusive system of quotas and requisitions? What substitute can
there be imagined for this ignis fatuus in finance, but that of permitting the national government
to raise its own revenues by the ordinary methods of taxation authorized in every well-ordered
constitution of civil government? Ingenious men may declaim with plausibility on any subject;
but no human ingenuity can point out any other expedient to rescue us from the inconveniences
and embarrassments naturally resulting from defective supplies of the public treasury.

The more intelligent adversaries of the new Constitution admit the force of this reasoning; but
they qualify their admission by a distinction between what they call internal and external
taxation. The former they would reserve to the State governments; the latter, which they explain
into commercial imposts, or rather duties on imported articles, they declare themselves willing to
concede to the federal head. This distinction, however, would violate the maxim of good sense
and sound policy, which dictates that every POWER ought to be in proportion to its OBJECT;
and would still leave the general government in a kind of tutelage to the State governments,
inconsistent with every idea of vigor or efficiency. Who can pretend that commercial imposts
are, or would be, alone equal to the present and future exigencies of the Union? Taking into the
account the existing debt, foreign and domestic, upon any plan of extinguishment which a man
moderately impressed with the importance of public justice and public credit could approve, in
addition to the establishments which all parties will acknowledge to be necessary, we could not
reasonably flatter ourselves, that this resource alone, upon the most improved scale, would even
suffice for its present necessities. Its future necessities admit not of calculation or limitation; and
upon the principle, more than once adverted to, the power of making provision for them as they
arise ought to be equally unconfined. I believe it may be regarded as a position warranted by the
history of mankind, that, in the usual progress of things, the necessities of a nation, in every stage
of its existence, will be found at least equal to its resources.

To say that deficiencies may be provided for by requisitions upon the States, is on the one hand
to acknowledge that this system cannot be depended upon, and on the other hand to depend upon
it for every thing beyond a certain limit. Those who have carefully attended to its vices and
deformities as they have been exhibited by experience or delineated in the course of these papers,
must feel invincible repugnancy to trusting the national interests in any degree to its operation.
Its inevitable tendency, whenever it is brought into activity, must be to enfeeble the Union, and
sow the seeds of discord and contention between the federal head and its members, and between



                                                                   138
 
                               


the members themselves. Can it be expected that the deficiencies would be better supplied in this
mode than the total wants of the Union have heretofore been supplied in the same mode? It ought
to be recollected that if less will be required from the States, they will have proportionably less
means to answer the demand. If the opinions of those who contend for the distinction which has
been mentioned were to be received as evidence of truth, one would be led to conclude that there
was some known point in the economy of national affairs at which it would be safe to stop and to
say: Thus far the ends of public happiness will be promoted by supplying the wants of
government, and all beyond this is unworthy of our care or anxiety. How is it possible that a
government half supplied and always necessitous, can fulfill the purposes of its institution, can
provide for the security, advance the prosperity, or support the reputation of the commonwealth?
How can it ever possess either energy or stability, dignity or credit, confidence at home or
respectability abroad? How can its administration be any thing else than a succession of
expedients temporizing, impotent, disgraceful? How will it be able to avoid a frequent sacrifice
of its engagements to immediate necessity? How can it undertake or execute any liberal or
enlarged plans of public good?

Let us attend to what would be the effects of this situation in the very first war in which we
should happen to be engaged. We will presume, for argument’s sake, that the revenue arising
from the impost duties answers the purposes of a provision for the public debt and of a peace
establishment for the Union. Thus circumstanced, a war breaks out. What would be the probable
conduct of the government in such an emergency? Taught by experience that proper dependence
could not be placed on the success of requisitions, unable by its own authority to lay hold of
fresh resources, and urged by considerations of national danger, would it not be driven to the
expedient of diverting the funds already appropriated from their proper objects to the defense of
the State? It is not easy to see how a step of this kind could be avoided; and if it should be taken,
it is evident that it would prove the destruction of public credit at the very moment that it was
becoming essential to the public safety. To imagine that at such a crisis credit might be dispensed
with, would be the extreme of infatuation. In the modern system of war, nations the most
wealthy are obliged to have recourse to large loans. A country so little opulent as ours must feel
this necessity in a much stronger degree. But who would lend to a government that prefaced its
overtures for borrowing by an act which demonstrated that no reliance could be placed on the
steadiness of its measures for paying? The loans it might be able to procure would be as limited
in their extent as burdensome in their conditions. They would be made upon the same principles
that usurers commonly lend to bankrupt and fraudulent debtors, with a sparing hand and at
enormous premiums.

It may perhaps be imagined that, from the scantiness of the resources of the country, the
necessity of diverting the established funds in the case supposed would exist, though the national
government should possess an unrestrained power of taxation. But two considerations will serve
to quiet all apprehension on this head: one is, that we are sure the resources of the community, in
their full extent, will be brought into activity for the benefit of the Union; the other is, that
whatever deficiences there may be, can without difficulty be supplied by loans.




                                                                 139
 
                              


The power of creating new funds upon new objects of taxation, by its own authority, would
enable the national government to borrow as far as its necessities might require. Foreigners, as
well as the citizens of America, could then reasonably repose confidence in its engagements; but
to depend upon a government that must itself depend upon thirteen other governments for the
means of fulfilling its contracts, when once its situation is clearly understood, would require a
degree of credulity not often to be met with in the pecuniary transactions of mankind, and little
reconcilable with the usual sharp-sightedness of avarice.

Reflections of this kind may have trifling weight with men who hope to see realized in America
the halcyon scenes of the poetic or fabulous age; but to those who believe we are likely to
experience a common portion of the vicissitudes and calamities which have fallen to the lot of
other nations, they must appear entitled to serious attention. Such men must behold the actual
situation of their country with painful solicitude, and deprecate the evils which ambition or
revenge might, with too much facility, inflict upon it.




                                                              140
 
                               



Federalist No. 31 - Concerning the General Power of Taxation
(continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Tuesday, January 1, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

IN DISQUISITIONS of every kind, there are certain primary truths, or first principles, upon
which all subsequent reasonings must depend. These contain an internal evidence which,
antecedent to all reflection or combination, commands the assent of the mind. Where it produces
not this effect, it must proceed either from some defect or disorder in the organs of perception, or
from the influence of some strong interest, or passion, or prejudice. Of this nature are the
maxims in geometry, that "the whole is greater than its part; things equal to the same are equal to
one another; two straight lines cannot enclose a space; and all right angles are equal to each
other." Of the same nature are these other maxims in ethics and politics, that there cannot be an
effect without a cause; that the means ought to be proportioned to the end; that every power
ought to be commensurate with its object; that there ought to be no limitation of a power
destined to effect a purpose which is itself incapable of limitation. And there are other truths in
the two latter sciences which, if they cannot pretend to rank in the class of axioms, are yet such
direct inferences from them, and so obvious in themselves, and so agreeable to the natural and
unsophisticated dictates of common-sense, that they challenge the assent of a sound and unbiased
mind, with a degree of force and conviction almost equally irresistible.

The objects of geometrical inquiry are so entirely abstracted from those pursuits which stir up
and put in motion the unruly passions of the human heart, that mankind, without difficulty, adopt
not only the more simple theorems of the science, but even those abstruse paradoxes which,
however they may appear susceptible of demonstration, are at variance with the natural
conceptions which the mind, without the aid of philosophy, would be led to entertain upon the
subject. The INFINITE DIVISIBILITY of matter, or, in other words, the INFINITE divisibility
of a FINITE thing, extending even to the minutest atom, is a point agreed among geometricians,
though not less incomprehensible to common-sense than any of those mysteries in religion,
against which the batteries of infidelity have been so industriously leveled.

But in the sciences of morals and politics, men are found far less tractable. To a certain degree, it
is right and useful that this should be the case. Caution and investigation are a necessary armor
against error and imposition. But this untractableness may be carried too far, and may degenerate
into obstinacy, perverseness, or disingenuity. Though it cannot be pretended that the principles of
moral and political knowledge have, in general, the same degree of certainty with those of the
mathematics, yet they have much better claims in this respect than, to judge from the conduct of
men in particular situations, we should be disposed to allow them. The obscurity is much oftener
in the passions and prejudices of the reasoner than in the subject. Men, upon too many occasions,


                                                                 141
 
                               


do not give their own understandings fair play; but, yielding to some untoward bias, they
entangle themselves in words and confound themselves in subtleties.

How else could it happen (if we admit the objectors to be sincere in their opposition), that
positions so clear as those which manifest the necessity of a general power of taxation in the
government of the Union, should have to encounter any adversaries among men of discernment?
Though these positions have been elsewhere fully stated, they will perhaps not be improperly
recapitulated in this place, as introductory to an examination of what may have been offered by
way of objection to them. They are in substance as follows:

A government ought to contain in itself every power requisite to the full accomplishment of the
objects committed to its care, and to the complete execution of the trusts for which it is
responsible, free from every other control but a regard to the public good and to the sense of the
people.

As the duties of superintending the national defense and of securing the public peace against
foreign or domestic violence involve a provision for casualties and dangers to which no possible
limits can be assigned, the power of making that provision ought to know no other bounds than
the exigencies of the nation and the resources of the community.

As revenue is the essential engine by which the means of answering the national exigencies must
be procured, the power of procuring that article in its full extent must necessarily be
comprehended in that of providing for those exigencies.

As theory and practice conspire to prove that the power of procuring revenue is unavailing when
exercised over the States in their collective capacities, the federal government must of necessity
be invested with an unqualified power of taxation in the ordinary modes.

Did not experience evince the contrary, it would be natural to conclude that the propriety of a
general power of taxation in the national government might safely be permitted to rest on the
evidence of these propositions, unassisted by any additional arguments or illustrations. But we
find, in fact, that the antagonists of the proposed Constitution, so far from acquiescing in their
justness or truth, seem to make their principal and most zealous effort against this part of the
plan. It may therefore be satisfactory to analyze the arguments with which they combat it.

Those of them which have been most labored with that view, seem in substance to amount to
this: “It is not true, because the exigencies of the Union may not be susceptible of limitation, that
its power of laying taxes ought to be unconfined. Revenue is as requisite to the purposes of the
local administrations as to those of the Union; and the former are at least of equal importance
with the latter to the happiness of the people. It is, therefore, as necessary that the State
governments should be able to command the means of supplying their wants, as that the national
government should possess the like faculty in respect to the wants of the Union. But an indefinite
power of taxation in the latter might, and probably would in time, deprive the former of the



                                                                 142
 
                               


means of providing for their own necessities; and would subject them entirely to the mercy of the
national legislature. As the laws of the Union are to become the supreme law of the land, as it is
to have power to pass all laws that may be NECESSARY for carrying into execution the
authorities with which it is proposed to vest it, the national government might at any time abolish
the taxes imposed for State objects upon the pretense of an interference with its own. It might
allege a necessity of doing this in order to give efficacy to the national revenues. And thus all the
resources of taxation might by degrees become the subjects of federal monopoly, to the entire
exclusion and destruction of the State governments.”

This mode of reasoning appears sometimes to turn upon the supposition of usurpation in the
national government; at other times it seems to be designed only as a deduction from the
constitutional operation of its intended powers. It is only in the latter light that it can be admitted
to have any pretensions to fairness. The moment we launch into conjectures about the
usurpations of the federal government, we get into an unfathomable abyss, and fairly put
ourselves out of the reach of all reasoning. Imagination may range at pleasure till it gets
bewildered amidst the labyrinths of an enchanted castle, and knows not on which side to turn to
extricate itself from the perplexities into which it has so rashly adventured. Whatever may be the
limits or modifications of the powers of the Union, it is easy to imagine an endless train of
possible dangers; and by indulging an excess of jealousy and timidity, we may bring ourselves to
a state of absolute scepticism and irresolution. I repeat here what I have observed in substance in
another place, that all observations founded upon the danger of usurpation ought to be referred to
the composition and structure of the government, not to the nature or extent of its powers. The
State governments, by their original constitutions, are invested with complete sovereignty. In
what does our security consist against usurpation from that quarter? Doubtless in the manner of
their formation, and in a due dependence of those who are to administer them upon the people. If
the proposed construction of the federal government be found, upon an impartial examination of
it, to be such as to afford, to a proper extent, the same species of security, all apprehensions on
the score of usurpation ought to be discarded.

It should not be forgotten that a disposition in the State governments to encroach upon the rights
of the Union is quite as probable as a disposition in the Union to encroach upon the rights of the
State governments. What side would be likely to prevail in such a conflict, must depend on the
means which the contending parties could employ toward insuring success. As in republics
strength is always on the side of the people, and as there are weighty reasons to induce a belief
that the State governments will commonly possess most influence over them, the natural
conclusion is that such contests will be most apt to end to the disadvantage of the Union; and that
there is greater probability of encroachments by the members upon the federal head, than by the
federal head upon the members. But it is evident that all conjectures of this kind must be
extremely vague and fallible: and that it is by far the safest course to lay them altogether aside,
and to confine our attention wholly to the nature and extent of the powers as they are delineated
in the Constitution. Every thing beyond this must be left to the prudence and firmness of the
people; who, as they will hold the scales in their own hands, it is to be hoped, will always take
care to preserve the constitutional equilibrium between the general and the State governments.



                                                                   143
 
                               


Upon this ground, which is evidently the true one, it will not be difficult to obviate the objections
which have been made to an indefinite power of taxation in the United States.




                                                                 144
 
                               



Federalist No. 32 - Concerning the General Power of Taxation
(continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, January 2, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

ALTHOUGH I am of opinion that there would be no real danger of the consequences which
seem to be apprehended to the State governments from a power in the Union to control them in
the levies of money, because I am persuaded that the sense of the people, the extreme hazard of
provoking the resentments of the State governments, and a conviction of the utility and necessity
of local administrations for local purposes, would be a complete barrier against the oppressive
use of such a power; yet I am willing here to allow, in its full extent, the justness of the reasoning
which requires that the individual States should possess an independent and uncontrollable
authority to raise their own revenues for the supply of their own wants. And making this
concession, I affirm that (with the sole exception of duties on imports and exports) they would,
under the plan of the convention, retain that authority in the most absolute and unqualified sense;
and that an attempt on the part of the national government to abridge them in the exercise of it,
would be a violent assumption of power, unwarranted by any article or clause of its Constitution.

An entire consolidation of the States into one complete national sovereignty would imply an
entire subordination of the parts; and whatever powers might remain in them, would be
altogether dependent on the general will. But as the plan of the convention aims only at a partial
union or consolidation, the State governments would clearly retain all the rights of sovereignty
which they before had, and which were not, by that act, exclusively delegated to the United
States. This exclusive delegation, or rather this alienation, of State sovereignty, would only exist
in three cases: where the Constitution in express terms granted an exclusive authority to the
Union; where it granted in one instance an authority to the Union, and in another prohibited the
States from exercising the like authority; and where it granted an authority to the Union, to
which a similar authority in the States would be absolutely and totally contradictory and
repugnant. I use these terms to distinguish this last case from another which might appear to
resemble it, but which would, in fact, be essentially different; I mean where the exercise of a
concurrent jurisdiction might be productive of occasional interferences in the policy of any
branch of administration, but would not imply any direct contradiction or repugnancy in point of
constitutional authority. These three cases of exclusive jurisdiction in the federal government
may be exemplified by the following instances: The last clause but one in the eighth section of
the first article provides expressly that Congress shall exercise "exclusive legislation" over the
district to be appropriated as the seat of government. This answers to the first case. The first
clause of the same section empowers Congress "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and
excises"; and the second clause of the tenth section of the same article declares that, "no state
shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except


                                                                  145
 
                               


for the purpose of executing its inspection laws." Hence would result an exclusive power in the
Union to lay duties on imports and exports, with the particular exception mentioned; but this
power is abridged by another clause, which declares that no tax or duty shall be laid on articles
exported from any State; in consequence of which qualification, it now only extends to the duties
on imports. This answers to the second case. The third will be found in that clause which
declares that Congress shall have power "to establish an UNIFORM RULE of naturalization
throughout the United States." This must necessarily be exclusive; because if each State had
power to prescribe a DISTINCT RULE, there could not be a UNIFORM RULE.

A case which may perhaps be thought to resemble the latter, but which is in fact widely different,
affects the question immediately under consideration. I mean the power of imposing taxes on all
articles other than exports and imports. This, I contend, is manifestly a concurrent and coequal
authority in the United States and in the individual States. There is plainly no expression in the
granting clause which makes that power exclusive in the Union. There is no independent clause
or sentence which prohibits the States from exercising it. So far is this from being the case, that a
plain and conclusive argument to the contrary is to be deduced from the restraint laid upon the
States in relation to duties on imports and exports. This restriction implies an admission that, if it
were not inserted, the States would possess the power it excludes; and it implies a further
admission, that as to all other taxes, the authority of the States remains undiminished. In any
other view it would be both unnecessary and dangerous; it would be unnecessary, because if the
grant to the Union of the power of laying such duties implied the exclusion of the States, or even
their subordination in this particular, there could be no need of such a restriction; it would be
dangerous, because the introduction of it leads directly to the conclusion which has been
mentioned, and which, if the reasoning of the objectors be just, could not have been intended; I
mean that the States, in all cases to which the restriction did not apply, would have a concurrent
power of taxation with the Union. The restriction in question amounts to what lawyers call a
NEGATIVE PREGNANT that is, a negation of one thing, and an affirmance of another; a
negation of the authority of the States to impose taxes on imports and exports, and an affirmance
of their authority to impose them on all other articles. It would be mere sophistry to argue that it
was meant to exclude them absolutely from the imposition of taxes of the former kind, and to
leave them at liberty to lay others subject to the control of the national legislature. The
restraining or prohibitory clause only says, that they shall not, without the consent of Congress,
lay such duties; and if we are to understand this in the sense last mentioned, the Constitution
would then be made to introduce a formal provision for the sake of a very absurd conclusion;
which is, that the States, with the consent of the national legislature, might tax imports and
exports; and that they might tax every other article, unless controlled by the same body. If this
was the intention, why not leave it, in the first instance, to what is alleged to be the natural
operation of the original clause, conferring a general power of taxation upon the Union? It is
evident that this could not have been the intention, and that it will not bear a construction of the
kind.

As to a supposition of repugnancy between the power of taxation in the States and in the Union,
it cannot be supported in that sense which would be requisite to work an exclusion of the States.



                                                                  146
 
                               


It is, indeed, possible that a tax might be laid on a particular article by a State which might render
it inexpedient that thus a further tax should be laid on the same article by the Union; but it would
not imply a constitutional inability to impose a further tax. The quantity of the imposition, the
expediency or inexpediency of an increase on either side, would be mutually questions of
prudence; but there would be involved no direct contradiction of power. The particular policy of
the national and of the State systems of finance might now and then not exactly coincide, and
might require reciprocal forbearances. It is not, however a mere possibility of inconvenience in
the exercise of powers, but an immediate constitutional repugnancy that can by implication
alienate and extinguish a pre-existing right of sovereignty.

The necessity of a concurrent jurisdiction in certain cases results from the division of the
sovereign power; and the rule that all authorities, of which the States are not explicitly divested
in favor of the Union, remain with them in full vigor, is not a theoretical consequence of that
division, but is clearly admitted by the whole tenor of the instrument which contains the articles
of the proposed Constitution. We there find that, notwithstanding the affirmative grants of
general authorities, there has been the most pointed care in those cases where it was deemed
improper that the like authorities should reside in the States, to insert negative clauses
prohibiting the exercise of them by the States. The tenth section of the first article consists
altogether of such provisions. This circumstance is a clear indication of the sense of the
convention, and furnishes a rule of interpretation out of the body of the act, which justifies the
position I have advanced and refutes every hypothesis to the contrary.




                                                                  147
 
                               



Federalist No. 33 - Concerning the General Power of Taxation
(continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, January 2, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE residue of the argument against the provisions of the Constitution in respect to taxation is
ingrafted upon the following clause. The last clause of the eighth section of the first article of the
plan under consideration authorizes the national legislature "to make all laws which shall be
necessary and proper for carrying into execution the powers by that Constitution vested in the
government of the United States, or in any department or officer thereof"; and the second clause
of the sixth article declares, "that the Constitution and the laws of the United States made in
pursuance thereof, and the treaties made by their authority shall be the supreme law of the land,
any thing in the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding."

These two clauses have been the source of much virulent invective and petulant declamation
against the proposed Constitution. They have been held up to the people in all the exaggerated
colors of misrepresentation as the pernicious engines by which their local governments were to
be destroyed and their liberties exterminated; as the hideous monster whose devouring jaws
would spare neither sex nor age, nor high nor low, nor sacred nor profane; and yet, strange as it
may appear, after all this clamor, to those who may not have happened to contemplate them in
the same light, it may be affirmed with perfect confidence that the constitutional operation of the
intended government would be precisely the same, if these clauses were entirely obliterated, as if
they were repeated in every article. They are only declaratory of a truth which would have
resulted by necessary and unavoidable implication from the very act of constituting a federal
government, and vesting it with certain specified powers. This is so clear a proposition, that
moderation itself can scarcely listen to the railings which have been so copiously vented against
this part of the plan, without emotions that disturb its equanimity.

What is a power, but the ability or faculty of doing a thing? What is the ability to do a thing, but
the power of employing the means necessary to its execution? What is a LEGISLATIVE power,
but a power of making LAWS? What are the means to execute a LEGISLATIVE power but
LAWS? What is the power of laying and collecting taxes, but a legislative power, or a power of
making laws, to lay and collect taxes? What are the proper means of executing such a power, but
necessary and proper laws?

This simple train of inquiry furnishes us at once with a test by which to judge of the true nature
of the clause complained of. It conducts us to this palpable truth, that a power to lay and collect
taxes must be a power to pass all laws necessary and proper for the execution of that power; and
what does the unfortunate and culumniated provision in question do more than declare the same


                                                                   148
 
                               


truth, to wit, that the national legislature, to whom the power of laying and collecting taxes had
been previously given, might, in the execution of that power, pass all laws necessary and proper
to carry it into effect? I have applied these observations thus particularly to the power of
taxation, because it is the immediate subject under consideration, and because it is the most
important of the authorities proposed to be conferred upon the Union. But the same process will
lead to the same result, in relation to all other powers declared in the Constitution. And it is
expressly to execute these powers that the sweeping clause, as it has been affectedly called,
authorizes the national legislature to pass all necessary and proper laws. If there is any thing
exceptionable, it must be sought for in the specific powers upon which this general declaration is
predicated. The declaration itself, though it may be chargeable with tautology or redundancy, is
at least perfectly harmless.

But SUSPICION may ask, Why then was it introduced? The answer is, that it could only have
been done for greater caution, and to guard against all cavilling refinements in those who might
hereafter feel a disposition to curtail and evade the legitimate authorities of the Union. The
Convention probably foresaw, what it has been a principal aim of these papers to inculcate, that
the danger which most threatens our political welfare is that the State governments will finally
sap the foundations of the Union; and might therefore think it necessary, in so cardinal a point, to
leave nothing to construction. Whatever may have been the inducement to it, the wisdom of the
precaution is evident from the cry which has been raised against it; as that very cry betrays a
disposition to question the great and essential truth which it is manifestly the object of that
provision to declare.

But it may be again asked, Who is to judge of the necessity and propriety of the laws to be
passed for executing the powers of the Union? I answer, first, that this question arises as well and
as fully upon the simple grant of those powers as upon the declaratory clause; and I answer, in
the second place, that the national government, like every other, must judge, in the first instance,
of the proper exercise of its powers, and its constituents in the last. If the federal government
should overpass the just bounds of its authority and make a tyrannical use of its powers, the
people, whose creature it is, must appeal to the standard they have formed, and take such
measures to redress the injury done to the Constitution as the exigency may suggest and
prudence justify. The propriety of a law, in a constitutional light, must always be determined by
the nature of the powers upon which it is founded. Suppose, by some forced constructions of its
authority (which, indeed, cannot easily be imagined), the Federal legislature should attempt to
vary the law of descent in any State, would it not be evident that, in making such an attempt, it
had exceeded its jurisdiction, and infringed upon that of the State? Suppose, again, that upon the
pretense of an interference with its revenues, it should undertake to abrogate a land tax imposed
by the authority of a State; would it not be equally evident that this was an invasion of that
concurrent jurisdiction in respect to this species of tax, which its Constitution plainly supposes to
exist in the State governments? If there ever should be a doubt on this head, the credit of it will
be entirely due to those reasoners who, in the imprudent zeal of their animosity to the plan of the
convention, have labored to envelop it in a cloud calculated to obscure the plainest and simplest
truths.



                                                                 149
 
                              



But it is said that the laws of the Union are to be the supreme law of the land. But what inference
can be drawn from this, or what would they amount to, if they were not to be supreme? It is
evident they would amount to nothing. A LAW, by the very meaning of the term, includes
supremacy. It is a rule which those to whom it is prescribed are bound to observe. This results
from every political association. If individuals enter into a state of society, the laws of that
society must be the supreme regulator of their conduct. If a number of political societies enter
into a larger political society, the laws which the latter may enact, pursuant to the powers
intrusted to it by its constitution, must necessarily be supreme over those societies, and the
individuals of whom they are composed. It would otherwise be a mere treaty, dependent on the
good faith of the parties, and not a government, which is only another word for POLITICAL
POWER AND SUPREMACY. But it will not follow from this doctrine that acts of the large
society which are not pursuant to its constitutional powers, but which are invasions of the
residuary authorities of the smaller societies, will become the supreme law of the land. These
will be merely acts of usurpation, and will deserve to be treated as such. Hence we perceive that
the clause which declares the supremacy of the laws of the Union, like the one we have just
before considered, only declares a truth, which flows immediately and necessarily from the
institution of a federal government. It will not, I presume, have escaped observation, that it
expressly confines this supremacy to laws made pursuant to the Constitution; which I mention
merely as an instance of caution in the convention; since that limitation would have been to be
understood, though it had not been expressed.

Though a law, therefore, laying a tax for the use of the United States would be supreme in its
nature, and could not legally be opposed or controlled, yet a law for abrogating or preventing the
collection of a tax laid by the authority of the State, (unless upon imports and exports), would not
be the supreme law of the land, but a usurpation of power not granted by the Constitution. As far
as an improper accumulation of taxes on the same object might tend to render the collection
difficult or precarious, this would be a mutual inconvenience, not arising from a superiority or
defect of power on either side, but from an injudicious exercise of power by one or the other, in a
manner equally disadvantageous to both. It is to be hoped and presumed, however, that mutual
interest would dictate a concert in this respect which would avoid any material inconvenience.
The inference from the whole is, that the individual States would, under the proposed
Constitution, retain an independent and uncontrollable authority to raise revenue to any extent of
which they may stand in need, by every kind of taxation, except duties on imports and exports. It
will be shown in the next paper that this concurrent jurisdiction in the article of taxation was the
only admissible substitute for an entire subordination, in respect to this branch of power, of the
State authority to that of the Union.




                                                                150
 
                               



Federalist No. 34 - Concerning the General Power of Taxation
(continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Saturday, January 5, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

I FLATTER myself it has been clearly shown in my last number that the particular States, under
the proposed Constitution, would have COEQUAL authority with the Union in the article of
revenue, except as to duties on imports. As this leaves open to the States far the greatest part of
the resources of the community, there can be no color for the assertion that they would not
possess means as abundant as could be desired for the supply of their own wants, independent of
all external control. That the field is sufficiently wide will more fully appear when we come to
advert to the inconsiderable share of the public expenses for which it will fall to the lot of the
State governments to provide.

To argue upon abstract principles that this co-ordinate authority cannot exist, is to set up
supposition and theory against fact and reality. However proper such reasonings might be to
show that a thing ought not to exist, they are wholly to be rejected when they are made use of to
prove that it does not exist contrary to the evidence of the fact itself. It is well known that in the
Roman republic the legislative authority, in the last resort, resided for ages in two different
political bodies not as branches of the same legislature, but as distinct and independent
legislatures, in each of which an opposite interest prevailed: in one the patrician; in the other, the
plebian. Many arguments might have been adduced to prove the unfitness of two such seemingly
contradictory authorities, each having power to annul or repeal the acts of the other. But a man
would have been regarded as frantic who should have attempted at Rome to disprove their
existence. It will be readily understood that I allude to the COMITIA CENTURIATA and the
COMITIA TRIBUTA. The former, in which the people voted by centuries, was so arranged as to
give a superiority to the patrician interest; in the latter, in which numbers prevailed, the plebian
interest had an entire predominancy. And yet these two legislatures coexisted for ages, and the
Roman republic attained to the utmost height of human greatness.

In the case particularly under consideration, there is no such contradiction as appears in the
example cited; there is no power on either side to annul the acts of the other. And in practice
there is little reason to apprehend any inconvenience; because, in a short course of time, the
wants of the States will naturally reduce themselves within a very narrow compass; and in the
interim, the United States will, in all probability, find it convenient to abstain wholly from those
objects to which the particular States would be inclined to resort.

To form a more precise judgment of the true merits of this question, it will be well to advert to
the proportion between the objects that will require a federal provision in respect to revenue, and


                                                                  151
 
                               


those which will require a State provision. We shall discover that the former are altogether
unlimited, and that the latter are circumscribed within very moderate bounds. In pursuing this
inquiry, we must bear in mind that we are not to confine our view to the present period, but to
look forward to remote futurity. Constitutions of civil government are not to be framed upon a
calculation of existing exigencies, but upon a combination of these with the probable exigencies
of ages, according to the natural and tried course of human affairs. Nothing, therefore, can be
more fallacious than to infer the extent of any power, proper to be lodged in the national
government, from an estimate of its immediate necessities. There ought to be a CAPACITY to
provide for future contingencies as they may happen; and as these are illimitable in their nature,
it is impossible safely to limit that capacity. It is true, perhaps, that a computation might be made
with sufficient accuracy to answer the purpose of the quantity of revenue requisite to discharge
the subsisting engagements of the Union, and to maintain those establishments which, for some
time to come, would suffice in time of peace. But would it be wise, or would it not rather be the
extreme of folly, to stop at this point, and to leave the government intrusted with the care of the
national defense in a state of absolute incapacity to provide for the protection of the community
against future invasions of the public peace, by foreign war or domestic convulsions? If, on the
contrary, we ought to exceed this point, where can we stop, short of an indefinite power of
providing for emergencies as they may arise? Though it is easy to assert, in general terms, the
possibility of forming a rational judgment of a due provision against probable dangers, yet we
may safely challenge those who make the assertion to bring forward their data, and may affirm
that they would be found as vague and uncertain as any that could be produced to establish the
probable duration of the world. Observations confined to the mere prospects of internal attacks
can deserve no weight; though even these will admit of no satisfactory calculation: but if we
mean to be a commercial people, it must form a part of our policy to be able one day to defend
that commerce. The support of a navy and of naval wars would involve contingencies that must
baffle all the efforts of political arithmetic.

Admitting that we ought to try the novel and absurd experiment in politics of tying up the hands
of government from offensive war founded upon reasons of state, yet certainly we ought not to
disable it from guarding the community against the ambition or enmity of other nations. A cloud
has been for some time hanging over the European world. If it should break forth into a storm,
who can insure us that in its progress a part of its fury would not be spent upon us? No
reasonable man would hastily pronounce that we are entirely out of its reach. Or if the
combustible materials that now seem to be collecting should be dissipated without coming to
maturity, or if a flame should be kindled without extending to us, what security can we have that
our tranquillity will long remain undisturbed from some other cause or from some other quarter?
Let us recollect that peace or war will not always be left to our option; that however moderate or
unambitious we may be, we cannot count upon the moderation, or hope to extinguish the
ambition of others. Who could have imagined at the conclusion of the last war that France and
Britain, wearied and exhausted as they both were, would so soon have looked with so hostile an
aspect upon each other? To judge from the history of mankind, we shall be compelled to
conclude that the fiery and destructive passions of war reign in the human breast with much more
powerful sway than the mild and beneficent sentiments of peace; and that to model our political



                                                                  152
 
                              


systems upon speculations of lasting tranquillity, is to calculate on the weaker springs of the
human character.

What are the chief sources of expense in every government? What has occasioned that enormous
accumulation of debts with which several of the European nations are oppressed? The answers
plainly is, wars and rebellions; the support of those institutions which are necessary to guard the
body politic against these two most mortal diseases of society. The expenses arising from those
institutions which are relative to the mere domestic police of a state, to the support of its
legislative, executive, and judicial departments, with their different appendages, and to the
encouragement of agriculture and manufactures (which will comprehend almost all the objects of
state expenditure), are insignificant in comparison with those which relate to the national
defense.

In the kingdom of Great Britain, where all the ostentatious apparatus of monarchy is to be
provided for, not above a fifteenth part of the annual income of the nation is appropriated to the
class of expenses last mentioned; the other fourteen fifteenths are absorbed in the payment of the
interest of debts contracted for carrying on the wars in which that country has been engaged, and
in the maintenance of fleets and armies. If, on the one hand, it should be observed that the
expenses incurred in the prosecution of the ambitious enterprises and vainglorious pursuits of a
monarchy are not a proper standard by which to judge of those which might be necessary in a
republic, it ought, on the other hand, to be remarked that there should be as great a disproportion
between the profusion and extravagance of a wealthy kingdom in its domestic administration,
and the frugality and economy which in that particular become the modest simplicity of
republican government. If we balance a proper deduction from one side against that which it is
supposed ought to be made from the other, the proportion may still be considered as holding
good.

But let us advert to the large debt which we have ourselves contracted in a single war, and let us
only calculate on a common share of the events which disturb the peace of nations, and we shall
instantly perceive, without the aid of any elaborate illustration, that there must always be an
immense disproportion between the objects of federal and state expenditures. It is true that
several of the States, separately, are encumbered with considerable debts, which are an
excrescence of the late war. But this cannot happen again, if the proposed system be adopted;
and when these debts are discharged, the only call for revenue of any consequence, which the
State governments will continue to experience, will be for the mere support of their respective
civil list; to which, if we add all contingencies, the total amount in every State ought to fall
considerably short of two hundred thousand pounds.

In framing a government for posterity as well as ourselves, we ought, in those provisions which
are designed to be permanent, to calculate, not on temporary, but on permanent causes of
expense. If this principle be a just one our attention would be directed to a provision in favor of
the State governments for an annual sum of about two hundred thousand pounds; while the
exigencies of the Union could be susceptible of no limits, even in imagination. In this view of the



                                                                 153
 
                               


subject, by what logic can it be maintained that the local governments ought to command, in
perpetuity, an exclusive source of revenue for any sum beyond the extent of two hundred
thousand pounds? To extend its power further, in exclusion of the authority of the Union, would
be to take the resources of the community out of those hands which stood in need of them for the
public welfare, in order to put them into other hands which could have no just or proper occasion
for them.

Suppose, then, the convention had been inclined to proceed upon the principle of a repartition of
the objects of revenue, between the Union and its members, in proportion to their comparative
necessities; what particular fund could have been selected for the use of the States, that would
not either have been too much or too little too little for their present, too much for their future
wants? As to the line of separation between external and internal taxes, this would leave to the
States, at a rough computation, the command of two thirds of the resources of the community to
defray from a tenth to a twentieth part of its expenses; and to the Union, one third of the
resources of the community, to defray from nine tenths to nineteen twentieths of its expenses. If
we desert this boundary and content ourselves with leaving to the States an exclusive power of
taxing houses and lands, there would still be a great disproportion between the means and the
end; the possession of one third of the resources of the community to supply, at most, one tenth
of its wants. If any fund could have been selected and appropriated, equal to and not greater than
the object, it would have been inadequate to the discharge of the existing debts of the particular
States, and would have left them dependent on the Union for a provision for this purpose.

The preceding train of observation will justify the position which has been elsewhere laid down,
that "A CONCURRENT JURISDICTION in the article of taxation was the only admissible
substitute for an entire subordination, in respect to this branch of power, of State authority to that
of the Union." Any separation of the objects of revenue that could have been fallen upon, would
have amounted to a sacrifice of the great INTERESTS of the Union to the POWER of the
individual States. The convention thought the concurrent jurisdiction preferable to that
subordination; and it is evident that it has at least the merit of reconciling an indefinite
constitutional power of taxation in the Federal government with an adequate and independent
power in the States to provide for their own necessities. There remain a few other lights, in
which this important subject of taxation will claim a further consideration.




                                                                   154
 
                               



Federalist No. 35 - Concerning the General Power of Taxation
(continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Saturday, January 5, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

BEFORE we proceed to examine any other objections to an indefinite power of taxation in the
Union, I shall make one general remark; which is, that if the jurisdiction of the national
government, in the article of revenue, should be restricted to particular objects, it would naturally
occasion an undue proportion of the public burdens to fall upon those objects. Two evils would
spring from this source: the oppression of particular branches of industry; and an unequal
distribution of the taxes, as well among the several States as among the citizens of the same
State.

Suppose, as has been contended for, the federal power of taxation were to be confined to duties
on imports, it is evident that the government, for want of being able to command other resources,
would frequently be tempted to extend these duties to an injurious excess. There are persons who
imagine that they can never be carried to too great a length; since the higher they are, the more it
is alleged they will tend to discourage an extravagant consumption, to produce a favorable
balance of trade, and to promote domestic manufactures. But all extremes are pernicious in
various ways. Exorbitant duties on imported articles would beget a general spirit of smuggling;
which is always prejudicial to the fair trader, and eventually to the revenue itself: they tend to
render other classes of the community tributary, in an improper degree, to the manufacturing
classes, to whom they give a premature monopoly of the markets; they sometimes force industry
out of its more natural channels into others in which it flows with less advantage; and in the last
place, they oppress the merchant, who is often obliged to pay them himself without any
retribution from the consumer. When the demand is equal to the quantity of goods at market, the
consumer generally pays the duty; but when the markets happen to be overstocked, a great
proportion falls upon the merchant, and sometimes not only exhausts his profits, but breaks in
upon his capital. I am apt to think that a division of the duty, between the seller and the buyer,
more often happens than is commonly imagined. It is not always possible to raise the price of a
commodity in exact proportion to every additional imposition laid upon it. The merchant,
especially in a country of small commercial capital, is often under a necessity of keeping prices
down in order to a more expeditious sale.

The maxim that the consumer is the payer, is so much oftener true than the reverse of the
proposition, that it is far more equitable that the duties on imports should go into a common
stock, than that they should redound to the exclusive benefit of the importing States. But it is not
so generally true as to render it equitable, that those duties should form the only national fund.
When they are paid by the merchant they operate as an additional tax upon the importing State,


                                                                 155
 
                              


whose citizens pay their proportion of them in the character of consumers. In this view they are
productive of inequality among the States; which inequality would be increased with the
increased extent of the duties. The confinement of the national revenues to this species of
imposts would be attended with inequality, from a different cause, between the manufacturing
and the non-manufacturing States. The States which can go farthest towards the supply of their
own wants, by their own manufactures, will not, according to their numbers or wealth, consume
so great a proportion of imported articles as those States which are not in the same favorable
situation. They would not, therefore, in this mode alone contribute to the public treasury in a
ratio to their abilities. To make them do this it is necessary that recourse be had to excises, the
proper objects of which are particular kinds of manufactures. New York is more deeply
interested in these considerations than such of her citizens as contend for limiting the power of
the Union to external taxation may be aware of. New York is an importing State, and is not likely
speedily to be, to any great extent, a manufacturing State. She would, of course, suffer in a
double light from restraining the jurisdiction of the Union to commercial imposts.

So far as these observations tend to inculcate a danger of the import duties being extended to an
injurious extreme it may be observed, conformably to a remark made in another part of these
papers, that the interest of the revenue itself would be a sufficient guard against such an extreme.
I readily admit that this would be the case, as long as other resources were open; but if the
avenues to them were closed, HOPE, stimulated by necessity, would beget experiments, fortified
by rigorous precautions and additional penalties, which, for a time, would have the intended
effect, till there had been leisure to contrive expedients to elude these new precautions. The first
success would be apt to inspire false opinions, which it might require a long course of
subsequent experience to correct. Necessity, especially in politics, often occasions false hopes,
false reasonings, and a system of measures correspondingly erroneous. But even if this supposed
excess should not be a consequence of the limitation of the federal power of taxation, the
inequalities spoken of would still ensue, though not in the same degree, from the other causes
that have been noticed. Let us now return to the examination of objections.

One which, if we may judge from the frequency of its repetition, seems most to be relied on, is,
that the House of Representatives is not sufficiently numerous for the reception of all the
different classes of citizens, in order to combine the interests and feelings of every part of the
community, and to produce a due sympathy between the representative body and its constituents.
This argument presents itself under a very specious and seducing form; and is well calculated to
lay hold of the prejudices of those to whom it is addressed. But when we come to dissect it with
attention, it will appear to be made up of nothing but fair-sounding words. The object it seems to
aim at is, in the first place, impracticable, and in the sense in which it is contended for, is
unnecessary. I reserve for another place the discussion of the question which relates to the
sufficiency of the representative body in respect to numbers, and shall content myself with
examining here the particular use which has been made of a contrary supposition, in reference to
the immediate subject of our inquiries.




                                                                 156
 
                               


The idea of an actual representation of all classes of the people, by persons of each class, is
altogether visionary. Unless it were expressly provided in the Constitution, that each different
occupation should send one or more members, the thing would never take place in practice.
Mechanics and manufacturers will always be inclined, with few exceptions, to give their votes to
merchants, in preference to persons of their own professions or trades. Those discerning citizens
are well aware that the mechanic and manufacturing arts furnish the materials of mercantile
enterprise and industry. Many of them, indeed, are immediately connected with the operations of
commerce. They know that the merchant is their natural patron and friend; and they are aware,
that however great the confidence they may justly feel in their own good sense, their interests
can be more effectually promoted by the merchant than by themselves. They are sensible that
their habits in life have not been such as to give them those acquired endowments, without
which, in a deliberative assembly, the greatest natural abilities are for the most part useless; and
that the influence and weight, and superior acquirements of the merchants render them more
equal to a contest with any spirit which might happen to infuse itself into the public councils,
unfriendly to the manufacturing and trading interests. These considerations, and many others that
might be mentioned prove, and experience confirms it, that artisans and manufacturers will
commonly be disposed to bestow their votes upon merchants and those whom they recommend.
We must therefore consider merchants as the natural representatives of all these classes of the
community.

With regard to the learned professions, little need be observed; they truly form no distinct
interest in society, and according to their situation and talents, will be indiscriminately the
objects of the confidence and choice of each other, and of other parts of the community.

Nothing remains but the landed interest; and this, in a political view, and particularly in relation
to taxes, I take to be perfectly united, from the wealthiest landlord down to the poorest tenant. No
tax can be laid on land which will not affect the proprietor of millions of acres as well as the
proprietor of a single acre. Every landholder will therefore have a common interest to keep the
taxes on land as low as possible; and common interest may always be reckoned upon as the
surest bond of sympathy. But if we even could suppose a distinction of interest between the
opulent landholder and the middling farmer, what reason is there to conclude, that the first would
stand a better chance of being deputed to the national legislature than the last? If we take fact as
our guide, and look into our own senate and assembly, we shall find that moderate proprietors of
land prevail in both; nor is this less the case in the senate, which consists of a smaller number,
than in the assembly, which is composed of a greater number. Where the qualifications of the
electors are the same, whether they have to choose a small or a large number, their votes will fall
upon those in whom they have most confidence; whether these happen to be men of large
fortunes, or of moderate property, or of no property at all.

It is said to be necessary, that all classes of citizens should have some of their own number in the
representative body, in order that their feelings and interests may be the better understood and
attended to. But we have seen that this will never happen under any arrangement that leaves the
votes of the people free. Where this is the case, the representative body, with too few exceptions



                                                                   157
 
                               


to have any influence on the spirit of the government, will be composed of landholders,
merchants, and men of the learned professions. But where is the danger that the interests and
feelings of the different classes of citizens will not be understood or attended to by these three
descriptions of men? Will not the landholder know and feel whatever will promote or insure the
interest of landed property? And will he not, from his own interest in that species of property, be
sufficiently prone to resist every attempt to prejudice or encumber it? Will not the merchant
understand and be disposed to cultivate, as far as may be proper, the interests of the mechanic
and manufacturing arts, to which his commerce is so nearly allied? Will not the man of the
learned profession, who will feel a neutrality to the rivalships between the different branches of
industry, be likely to prove an impartial arbiter between them, ready to promote either, so far as
it shall appear to him conducive to the general interests of the society?

If we take into the account the momentary humors or dispositions which may happen to prevail
in particular parts of the society, and to which a wise administration will never be inattentive, is
the man whose situation leads to extensive inquiry and information less likely to be a competent
judge of their nature, extent, and foundation than one whose observation does not travel beyond
the circle of his neighbors and acquaintances? Is it not natural that a man who is a candidate for
the favor of the people, and who is dependent on the suffrages of his fellow-citizens for the
continuance of his public honors, should take care to inform himself of their dispositions and
inclinations, and should be willing to allow them their proper degree of influence upon his
conduct? This dependence, and the necessity of being bound himself, and his posterity, by the
laws to which he gives his assent, are the true, and they are the strong chords of sympathy
between the representative and the constituent.

There is no part of the administration of government that requires extensive information and a
thorough knowledge of the principles of political economy, so much as the business of taxation.
The man who understands those principles best will be least likely to resort to oppressive
expedients, or sacrifice any particular class of citizens to the procurement of revenue. It might be
demonstrated that the most productive system of finance will always be the least burdensome.
There can be no doubt that in order to a judicious exercise of the power of taxation, it is
necessary that the person in whose hands it should be acquainted with the general genius, habits,
and modes of thinking of the people at large, and with the resources of the country. And this is
all that can be reasonably meant by a knowledge of the interests and feelings of the people. In
any other sense the proposition has either no meaning, or an absurd one. And in that sense let
every considerate citizen judge for himself where the requisite qualification is most likely to be
found.




                                                                  158
 
                              



Federalist No. 36 - Concerning the General Power of Taxation
(continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Tuesday, January 8, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

WE HAVE seen that the result of the observations, to which the foregoing number has been
principally devoted, is, that from the natural operation of the different interests and views of the
various classes of the community, whether the representation of the people be more or less
numerous, it will consist almost entirely of proprietors of land, of merchants, and of members of
the learned professions, who will truly represent all those different interests and views. If it
should be objected that we have seen other descriptions of men in the local legislatures, I answer
that it is admitted there are exceptions to the rule, but not in sufficient number to influence the
general complexion or character of the government. There are strong minds in every walk of life
that will rise superior to the disadvantages of situation, and will command the tribute due to their
merit, not only from the classes to which they particularly belong, but from the society in
general. The door ought to be equally open to all; and I trust, for the credit of human nature, that
we shall see examples of such vigorous plants flourishing in the soil of federal as well as of State
legislation; but occasional instances of this sort will not render the reasoning founded upon the
general course of things, less conclusive.

The subject might be placed in several other lights that would all lead to the same result; and in
particular it might be asked, What greater affinity or relation of interest can be conceived
between the carpenter and blacksmith, and the linen manufacturer or stocking weaver, than
between the merchant and either of them? It is notorious that there are often as great rivalships
between different branches of the mechanic or manufacturing arts as there are between any of the
departments of labor and industry; so that, unless the representative body were to be far more
numerous than would be consistent with any idea of regularity or wisdom in its deliberations, it
is impossible that what seems to be the spirit of the objection we have been considering should
ever be realized in practice. But I forbear to dwell any longer on a matter which has hitherto
worn too loose a garb to admit even of an accurate inspection of its real shape or tendency.

There is another objection of a somewhat more precise nature that claims our attention. It has
been asserted that a power of internal taxation in the national legislature could never be exercised
with advantage, as well from the want of a sufficient knowledge of local circumstances, as from
an interference between the revenue laws of the Union and of the particular States. The
supposition of a want of proper knowledge seems to be entirely destitute of foundation. If any
question is depending in a State legislature respecting one of the counties, which demands a
knowledge of local details, how is it acquired? No doubt from the information of the members of
the county. Cannot the like knowledge be obtained in the national legislature from the


                                                                 159
 
                               


representatives of each State? And is it not to be presumed that the men who will generally be
sent there will be possessed of the necessary degree of intelligence to be able to communicate
that information? Is the knowledge of local circumstances, as applied to taxation, a minute
topographical acquaintance with all the mountains, rivers, streams, highways, and bypaths in
each State; or is it a general acquaintance with its situation and resources, with the state of its
agriculture, commerce, manufactures, with the nature of its products and consumptions, with the
different degrees and kinds of its wealth, property, and industry?

Nations in general, even under governments of the more popular kind, usually commit the
administration of their finances to single men or to boards composed of a few individuals, who
digest and prepare, in the first instance, the plans of taxation, which are afterwards passed into
laws by the authority of the sovereign or legislature.

Inquisitive and enlightened statesmen are deemed everywhere best qualified to make a judicious
selection of the objects proper for revenue; which is a clear indication, as far as the sense of
mankind can have weight in the question, of the species of knowledge of local circumstances
requisite to the purposes of taxation.

The taxes intended to be comprised under the general denomination of internal taxes may be
subdivided into those of the direct and those of the indirect kind. Though the objection be made
to both, yet the reasoning upon it seems to be confined to the former branch. And indeed, as to
the latter, by which must be understood duties and excises on articles of consumption, one is at a
loss to conceive what can be the nature of the difficulties apprehended. The knowledge relating
to them must evidently be of a kind that will either be suggested by the nature of the article itself,
or can easily be procured from any well-informed man, especially of the mercantile class. The
circumstances that may distinguish its situation in one State from its situation in another must be
few, simple, and easy to be comprehended. The principal thing to be attended to, would be to
avoid those articles which had been previously appropriated to the use of a particular State; and
there could be no difficulty in ascertaining the revenue system of each. This could always be
known from the respective codes of laws, as well as from the information of the members from
the several States.

The objection, when applied to real property or to houses and lands, appears to have, at first
sight, more foundation, but even in this view it will not bear a close examination. Land taxes are
commonly laid in one of two modes, either by actual valuations, permanent or periodical, or by
occasional assessments, at the discretion, or according to the best judgment, of certain officers
whose duty it is to make them. In either case, the EXECUTION of the business, which alone
requires the knowledge of local details, must be devolved upon discreet persons in the character
of commissioners or assessors, elected by the people or appointed by the government for the
purpose. All that the law can do must be to name the persons or to prescribe the manner of their
election or appointment, to fix their numbers and qualifications and to draw the general outlines
of their powers and duties. And what is there in all this that cannot as well be performed by the
national legislature as by a State legislature? The attention of either can only reach to general



                                                                  160
 
                              


principles; local details, as already observed, must be referred to those who are to execute the
plan.

But there is a simple point of view in which this matter may be placed that must be altogether
satisfactory. The national legislature can make use of the system of each state within that state.
The method of laying and collecting this species of taxes in each State can, in all its parts, be
adopted and employed by the federal government.

Let it be recollected that the proportion of these taxes is not to be left to the discretion of the
national legislature, but is to be determined by the numbers of each State, as described in the
second section of the first article. An actual census or enumeration of the people must furnish the
rule, a circumstance which effectually shuts the door to partiality or oppression. The abuse of
this power of taxation seems to have been provided against with guarded circumspection. In
addition to the precaution just mentioned, there is a provision that "all duties, imposts, and
excises shall be UNIFORM throughout the United States."

It has been very properly observed by different speakers and writers on the side of the
Constitution, that if the exercise of the power of internal taxation by the Union should be
discovered on experiment to be really inconvenient, the federal government may then forbear the
use of it, and have recourse to requisitions in its stead. By way of answer to this, it has been
triumphantly asked, Why not in the first instance omit that ambiguous power, and rely upon the
latter resource? Two solid answers may be given. The first is, that the exercise of that power, if
convenient, will be preferable, because it will be more effectual; and it is impossible to prove in
theory, or otherwise than by the experiment, that it cannot be advantageously exercised. The
contrary, indeed, appears most probable. The second answer is, that the existence of such a
power in the Constitution will have a strong influence in giving efficacy to requisitions. When
the States know that the Union can apply itself without their agency, it will be a powerful motive
for exertion on their part.

As to the interference of the revenue laws of the Union, and of its members, we have already
seen that there can be no clashing or repugnancy of authority. The laws cannot, therefore, in a
legal sense, interfere with each other; and it is far from impossible to avoid an interference even
in the policy of their different systems. An effectual expedient for this purpose will be, mutually,
to abstain from those objects which either side may have first had recourse to. As neither can
control the other, each will have an obvious and sensible interest in this reciprocal forbearance.
And where there is an immediate common interest, we may safely count upon its operation.
When the particular debts of the States are done away, and their expenses come to be limited
within their natural compass, the possibility almost of interference will vanish. A small land tax
will answer the purpose of the States, and will be their most simple and most fit resource.

Many spectres have been raised out of this power of internal taxation, to excite the apprehensions
of the people: double sets of revenue officers, a duplication of their burdens by double taxations,




                                                                 161
 
                              


and the frightful forms of odious and oppressive poll-taxes, have been played off with all the
ingenious dexterity of political legerdemain.

As to the first point, there are two cases in which there can be no room for double sets of
officers: one, where the right of imposing the tax is exclusively vested in the Union, which
applies to the duties on imports; the other, where the object has not fallen under any State
regulation or provision, which may be applicable to a variety of objects. In other cases, the
probability is that the United States will either wholly abstain from the objects preoccupied for
local purposes, or will make use of the State officers and State regulations for collecting the
additional imposition. This will best answer the views of revenue, because it will save expense in
the collection, and will best avoid any occasion of disgust to the State governments and to the
people. At all events, here is a practicable expedient for avoiding such an inconvenience; and
nothing more can be required than to show that evils predicted to not necessarily result from the
plan.

As to any argument derived from a supposed system of influence, it is a sufficient answer to say
that it ought not to be presumed; but the supposition is susceptible of a more precise answer. If
such a spirit should infest the councils of the Union, the most certain road to the accomplishment
of its aim would be to employ the State officers as much as possible, and to attach them to the
Union by an accumulation of their emoluments. This would serve to turn the tide of State
influence into the channels of the national government, instead of making federal influence flow
in an opposite and adverse current. But all suppositions of this kind are invidious, and ought to
be banished from the consideration of the great question before the people. They can answer no
other end than to cast a mist over the truth.

As to the suggestion of double taxation, the answer is plain. The wants of the Union are to be
supplied in one way or another; if to be done by the authority of the federal government, it will
not be to be done by that of the State government. The quantity of taxes to be paid by the
community must be the same in either case; with this advantage, if the provision is to be made by
the Union that the capital resource of commercial imposts, which is the most convenient branch
of revenue, can be prudently improved to a much greater extent under federal than under State
regulation, and of course will render it less necessary to recur to more inconvenient methods; and
with this further advantage, that as far as there may be any real difficulty in the exercise of the
power of internal taxation, it will impose a disposition to greater care in the choice and
arrangement of the means; and must naturally tend to make it a fixed point of policy in the
national administration to go as far as may be practicable in making the luxury of the rich
tributary to the public treasury, in order to diminish the necessity of those impositions which
might create dissatisfaction in the poorer and most numerous classes of the society. Happy it is
when the interest which the government has in the preservation of its own power, coincides with
a proper distribution of the public burdens, and tends to guard the least wealthy part of the
community from oppression!




                                                               162
 
                               


As to poll taxes, I, without scruple, confess my disapprobation of them; and though they have
prevailed from an early period in those States [1] which have uniformly been the most tenacious
of their rights, I should lament to see them introduced into practice under the national
government. But does it follow because there is a power to lay them that they will actually be
laid? Every State in the Union has power to impose taxes of this kind; and yet in several of them
they are unknown in practice. Are the State governments to be stigmatized as tyrannies, because
they possess this power? If they are not, with what propriety can the like power justify such a
charge against the national government, or even be urged as an obstacle to its adoption? As little
friendly as I am to the species of imposition, I still feel a thorough conviction that the power of
having recourse to it ought to exist in the federal government. There are certain emergencies of
nations, in which expedients, that in the ordinary state of things ought to be forborne, become
essential to the public weal. And the government, from the possibility of such emergencies,
ought ever to have the option of making use of them. The real scarcity of objects in this country,
which may be considered as productive sources of revenue, is a reason peculiar to itself, for not
abridging the discretion of the national councils in this respect. There may exist certain critical
and tempestuous conjunctures of the State, in which a poll tax may become an inestimable
resource. And as I know nothing to exempt this portion of the globe from the common calamities
that have befallen other parts of it, I acknowledge my aversion to every project that is calculated
to disarm the government of a single weapon, which in any possible contingency might be
usefully employed for the general defense and security.

I have now gone through the examination of such of the powers proposed to be vested in the
United States, which may be considered as having an immediate relation to the energy of the
government; and have endeavored to answer the principal objections which have been made to
them. I have passed over in silence those minor authorities, which are either too inconsiderable
to have been thought worthy of the hostilities of the opponents of the Constitution, or of too
manifest propriety to admit of controversy. The mass of judiciary power, however, might have
claimed an investigation under this head, had it not been for the consideration that its
organization and its extent may be more advantageously considered in connection. This has
determined me to refer it to the branch of our inquiries upon which we shall next enter.

I have now gone through the examination of those powers proposed to be conferred upon the
federal government which relate more peculiarly to its energy, and to its efficiency for answering
the great and primary objects of union. There are others which, though omitted here, will, in
order to render the view of the subject more complete, be taken notice of under the next head of
our inquiries. I flatter myself the progress already made will have sufficed to satisfy the candid
and judicious part of the community that some of the objections which have been most
strenuously urged against the Constitution, and which were most formidable in their first
appearance, are not only destitute of substance, but if they had operated in the formation of the
plan, would have rendered it incompetent to the great ends of public happiness and national
prosperity. I equally flatter myself that a further and more critical investigation of the system will
serve to recommend it still more to every sincere and disinterested advocate for good
government and will leave no doubt with men of this character of the propriety and expediency



                                                                  163
 
                              


of adopting it. Happy will it be for ourselves, and more honorable for human nature, if we have
wisdom and virtue enough to set so glorious an example to mankind!

[1] New England states.




                                                              164
 
                               



Federalist No. 37 - Concerning the Difficulties of the Convention in
Devising a Proper Form of Government
Written by James Madison
Daily Advertiser, Friday, January 11, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

IN REVIEWING the defects of the existing Confederation, and showing that they cannot be
supplied by a government of less energy than that before the public, several of the most
important principles of the latter fell of course under consideration. But as the ultimate object of
these papers is to determine clearly and fully the merits of this Constitution, and the expediency
of adopting it, our plan cannot be complete without taking a more critical and thorough survey of
the work of the convention, without examining it on all its sides, comparing it in all its parts, and
calculating its probable effects. That this remaining task may be executed under impressions
conducive to a just and fair result, some reflections must in this place be indulged, which candor
previously suggests.

It is a misfortune, inseparable from human affairs, that public measures are rarely investigated
with that spirit of moderation which is essential to a just estimate of their real tendency to
advance or obstruct the public good; and that this spirit is more apt to be diminished than
promoted, by those occasions which require an unusual exercise of it. To those who have been
led by experience to attend to this consideration, it could not appear surprising, that the act of the
convention, which recommends so many important changes and innovations, which may be
viewed in so many lights and relations, and which touches the springs of so many passions and
interests, should find or excite dispositions unfriendly, both on one side and on the other, to a fair
discussion and accurate judgment of its merits. In some, it has been too evident from their own
publications, that they have scanned the proposed Constitution, not only with a predisposition to
censure, but with a predetermination to condemn; as the language held by others betrays an
opposite predetermination or bias, which must render their opinions also of little moment in the
question. In placing, however, these different characters on a level, with respect to the weight of
their opinions, I wish not to insinuate that there may not be a material difference in the purity of
their intentions. It is but just to remark in favor of the latter description, that as our situation is
universally admitted to be peculiarly critical, and to require indispensably that something should
be done for our relief, the predetermined patron of what has been actually done may have taken
his bias from the weight of these considerations, as well as from considerations of a sinister
nature. The predetermined adversary, on the other hand, can have been governed by no venial
motive whatever. The intentions of the first may be upright, as they may on the contrary be
culpable. The views of the last cannot be upright, and must be culpable. But the truth is, that
these papers are not addressed to persons falling under either of these characters. They solicit the
attention of those only, who add to a sincere zeal for the happiness of their country, a temper
favorable to a just estimate of the means of promoting it.


                                                                   165
 
                               



Persons of this character will proceed to an examination of the plan submitted by the convention,
not only without a disposition to find or to magnify faults; but will see the propriety of reflecting,
that a faultless plan was not to be expected. Nor will they barely make allowances for the errors
which may be chargeable on the fallibility to which the convention, as a body of men, were
liable; but will keep in mind, that they themselves also are but men, and ought not to assume an
infallibility in rejudging the fallible opinions of others.

With equal readiness will it be perceived, that besides these inducements to candor, many
allowances ought to be made for the difficulties inherent in the very nature of the undertaking
referred to the convention.

The novelty of the undertaking immediately strikes us. It has been shown in the course of these
papers, that the existing Confederation is founded on principles which are fallacious; that we
must consequently change this first foundation, and with it the superstructure resting upon it. It
has been shown, that the other confederacies which could be consulted as precedents have been
vitiated by the same erroneous principles, and can therefore furnish no other light than that of
beacons, which give warning of the course to be shunned, without pointing out that which ought
to be pursued. The most that the convention could do in such a situation, was to avoid the errors
suggested by the past experience of other countries, as well as of our own; and to provide a
convenient mode of rectifying their own errors, as future experiences may unfold them.

Among the difficulties encountered by the convention, a very important one must have lain in
combining the requisite stability and energy in government, with the inviolable attention due to
liberty and to the republican form. Without substantially accomplishing this part of their
undertaking, they would have very imperfectly fulfilled the object of their appointment, or the
expectation of the public; yet that it could not be easily accomplished, will be denied by no one
who is unwilling to betray his ignorance of the subject. Energy in government is essential to that
security against external and internal danger, and to that prompt and salutary execution of the
laws which enter into the very definition of good government. Stability in government is
essential to national character and to the advantages annexed to it, as well as to that repose and
confidence in the minds of the people, which are among the chief blessings of civil society. An
irregular and mutable legislation is not more an evil in itself than it is odious to the people; and it
may be pronounced with assurance that the people of this country, enlightened as they are with
regard to the nature, and interested, as the great body of them are, in the effects of good
government, will never be satisfied till some remedy be applied to the vicissitudes and
uncertainties which characterize the State administrations. On comparing, however, these
valuable ingredients with the vital principles of liberty, we must perceive at once the difficulty of
mingling them together in their due proportions. The genius of republican liberty seems to
demand on one side, not only that all power should be derived from the people, but that those
intrusted with it should be kept in independence on the people, by a short duration of their
appointments; and that even during this short period the trust should be placed not in a few, but a
number of hands. Stability, on the contrary, requires that the hands in which power is lodged



                                                                   166
 
                               


should continue for a length of time the same. A frequent change of men will result from a
frequent return of elections; and a frequent change of measures from a frequent change of men:
whilst energy in government requires not only a certain duration of power, but the execution of it
by a single hand.

How far the convention may have succeeded in this part of their work, will better appear on a
more accurate view of it. From the cursory view here taken, it must clearly appear to have been
an arduous part.

Not less arduous must have been the task of marking the proper line of partition between the
authority of the general and that of the State governments. Every man will be sensible of this
difficulty, in proportion as he has been accustomed to contemplate and discriminate objects
extensive and complicated in their nature. The faculties of the mind itself have never yet been
distinguished and defined, with satisfactory precision, by all the efforts of the most acute and
metaphysical philosophers. Sense, perception, judgment, desire, volition, memory, imagination,
are found to be separated by such delicate shades and minute gradations that their boundaries
have eluded the most subtle investigations, and remain a pregnant source of ingenious
disquisition and controversy. The boundaries between the great kingdom of nature, and, still
more, between the various provinces, and lesser portions, into which they are subdivided, afford
another illustration of the same important truth. The most sagacious and laborious naturalists
have never yet succeeded in tracing with certainty the line which separates the district of
vegetable life from the neighboring region of unorganized matter, or which marks the ermination
of the former and the commencement of the animal empire. A still greater obscurity lies in the
distinctive characters by which the objects in each of these great departments of nature have been
arranged and assorted.

When we pass from the works of nature, in which all the delineations are perfectly accurate, and
appear to be otherwise only from the imperfection of the eye which surveys them, to the
institutions of man, in which the obscurity arises as well from the object itself as from the organ
by which it is contemplated, we must perceive the necessity of moderating still further our
expectations and hopes from the efforts of human sagacity. Experience has instructed us that no
skill in the science of government has yet been able to discriminate and define, with sufficient
certainty, its three great provinces the legislative, executive, and judiciary; or even the privileges
and powers of the different legislative branches. Questions daily occur in the course of practice,
which prove the obscurity which reins in these subjects, and which puzzle the greatest adepts in
political science.

The experience of ages, with the continued and combined labors of the most enlightened
legislatures and jurists, has been equally unsuccessful in delineating the several objects and
limits of different codes of laws and different tribunals of justice. The precise extent of the
common law, and the statute law, the maritime law, the ecclesiastical law, the law of
corporations, and other local laws and customs, remains still to be clearly and finally established
in Great Britain, where accuracy in such subjects has been more industriously pursued than in



                                                                   167
 
                              


any other part of the world. The jurisdiction of her several courts, general and local, of law, of
equity, of admiralty, etc., is not less a source of frequent and intricate discussions, sufficiently
denoting the indeterminate limits by which they are respectively circumscribed. All new laws,
though penned with the greatest technical skill, and passed on the fullest and most mature
deliberation, are considered as more or less obscure and equivocal, until their meaning be
liquidated and ascertained by a series of particular discussions and adjudications. Besides the
obscurity arising from the complexity of objects, and the imperfection of the human faculties, the
medium through which the conceptions of men are conveyed to each other adds a fresh
embarrassment. The use of words is to express ideas. Perspicuity, therefore, requires not only
that the ideas should be distinctly formed, but that they should be expressed by words distinctly
and exclusively appropriate to them. But no language is so copious as to supply words and
phrases for every complex idea, or so correct as not to include many equivocally denoting
different ideas. Hence it must happen that however accurately objects may be discriminated in
themselves, and however accurately the discrimination may be considered, the definition of them
may be rendered inaccurate by the inaccuracy of the terms in which it is delivered. And this
unavoidable inaccuracy must be greater or less, according to the complexity and novelty of the
objects defined. When the Almighty himself condescends to address mankind in their own
language, his meaning, luminous as it must be, is rendered dim and doubtful by the cloudy
medium through which it is communicated.

Here, then, are three sources of vague and incorrect definitions: indistinctness of the object,
imperfection of the organ of conception, inadequateness of the vehicle of ideas. Any one of these
must produce a certain degree of obscurity. The convention, in delineating the boundary between
the federal and State jurisdictions, must have experienced the full effect of them all.

To the difficulties already mentioned may be added the interfering pretensions of the larger and
smaller States. We cannot err in supposing that the former would contend for a participation in
the government, fully proportioned to their superior wealth and importance; and that the latter
would not be less tenacious of the equality at present enjoyed by them. We may well suppose
that neither side would entirely yield to the other, and consequently that the struggle could be
terminated only by compromise. It is extremely probable, also, that after the ratio of
representation had been adjusted, this very compromise must have produced a fresh struggle
between the same parties, to give such a turn to the organization of the government, and to the
distribution of its powers, as would increase the importance of the branches, in forming which
they had respectively obtained the greatest share of influence. There are features in the
Constitution which warrant each of these suppositions; and as far as either of them is well
founded, it shows that the convention must have been compelled to sacrifice theoretical propriety
to the force of extraneous considerations.

Nor could it have been the large and small States only, which would marshal themselves in
opposition to each other on various points. Other combinations, resulting from a difference of
local position and policy, must have created additional difficulties. As every State may be
divided into different districts, and its citizens into different classes, which give birth to



                                                                168
 
                               


contending interests and local jealousies, so the different parts of the United States are
distinguished from each other by a variety of circumstances, which produce a like effect on a
larger scale. And although this variety of interests, for reasons sufficiently explained in a former
paper, may have a salutary influence on the administration of the government when formed, yet
every one must be sensible of the contrary influence, which must have been experienced in the
task of forming it.

Would it be wonderful if, under the pressure of all these difficulties, the convention should have
been forced into some deviations from that artificial structure and regular symmetry which an
abstract view of the subject might lead an ingenious theorist to bestow on a Constitution planned
in his closet or in his imagination? The real wonder is that so many difficulties should have been
surmounted, and surmounted with a unanimity almost as unprecedented as it must have been
unexpected. It is impossible for any man of candor to reflect on this circumstance without
partaking of the astonishment. It is impossible for the man of pious reflection not to perceive in it
a finger of that Almighty hand which has been so frequently and signally extended to our relief
in the critical stages of the revolution.

We had occasion, in a former paper, to take notice of the repeated trials which have been
unsuccessfully made in the United Netherlands for reforming the baneful and notorious vices of
their constitution. The history of almost all the great councils and consultations held among
mankind for reconciling their discordant opinions, assuaging their mutual jealousies, and
adjusting their respective interests, is a history of factions, contentions, and disappointments, and
may be classed among the most dark and degraded pictures which display the infirmities and
depravities of the human character. If, in a few scattered instances, a brighter aspect is presented,
they serve only as exceptions to admonish us of the general truth; and by their lustre to darken
the gloom of the adverse prospect to which they are contrasted. In revolving the causes from
which these exceptions result, and applying them to the particular instances before us, we are
necessarily led to two important conclusions. The first is, that the convention must have enjoyed,
in a very singular degree, an exemption from the pestilential influence of party animosities the
disease most incident to deliberative bodies, and most apt to contaminate their proceedings. The
second conclusion is that all the deputations composing the convention were satisfactorily
accommodated by the final act, or were induced to accede to it by a deep conviction of the
necessity of sacrificing private opinions and partial interests to the public good, and by a despair
of seeing this necessity diminished by delays or by new experiments.




                                                                  169
 
                               



Federalist No. 38 - The Same Subject Continued, and the
Incoherence of the Objections to the New Plan Exposed
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Saturday, January 12, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

IT IS not a little remarkable that in every case reported by ancient history, in which government
has been established with deliberation and consent, the task of framing it has not been committed
to an assembly of men, but has been performed by some individual citizen of preeminent wisdom
and approved integrity.

Minos, we learn, was the primitive founder of the government of Crete, as Zaleucus was of that
of the Locrians. Theseus first, and after him Draco and Solon, instituted the government of
Athens. Lycurgus was the lawgiver of Sparta. The foundation of the original government of
Rome was laid by Romulus, and the work completed by two of his elective successors, Numa
and Tullius Hostilius. On the abolition of royalty the consular administration was substituted by
Brutus, who stepped forward with a project for such a reform, which, he alleged, had been
prepared by Tullius Hostilius, and to which his address obtained the assent and ratification of the
senate and people. This remark is applicable to confederate governments also. Amphictyon, we
are told, was the author of that which bore his name. The Achaean league received its first birth
from Achaeus, and its second from Aratus.

What degree of agency these reputed lawgivers might have in their respective establishments, or
how far they might be clothed with the legitimate authority of the people, cannot in every
instance be ascertained. In some, however, the proceeding was strictly regular. Draco appears to
have been intrusted by the people of Athens with indefinite powers to reform its government and
laws. And Solon, according to Plutarch, was in a manner compelled, by the universal suffrage of
his fellow-citizens, to take upon him the sole and absolute power of new-modeling the
constitution. The proceedings under Lycurgus were less regular; but as far as the advocates for a
regular reform could prevail, they all turned their eyes towards the single efforts of that
celebrated patriot and sage, instead of seeking to bring about a revolution by the intervention of a
deliberative body of citizens.

Whence could it have proceeded, that a people, jealous as the Greeks were of their liberty,
should so far abandon the rules of caution as to place their destiny in the hands of a single
citizen? Whence could it have proceeded, that the Athenians, a people who would not suffer an
army to be commanded by fewer than ten generals, and who required no other proof of danger to
their liberties than the illustrious merit of a fellow-citizen, should consider one illustrious citizen
as a more eligible depositary of the fortunes of themselves and their posterity, than a select body
of citizens, from whose common deliberations more wisdom, as well as more safety, might have


                                                                    170
 
                              


been expected? These questions cannot be fully answered, without supposing that the fears of
discord and disunion among a number of counsellors exceeded the apprehension of treachery or
incapacity in a single individual. History informs us, likewise, of the difficulties with which
these celebrated reformers had to contend, as well as the expedients which they were obliged to
employ in order to carry their reforms into effect. Solon, who seems to have indulged a more
temporizing policy, confessed that he had not given to his countrymen the government best
suited to their happiness, but most tolerable to their prejudices. And Lycurgus, more true to his
object, was under the necessity of mixing a portion of violence with the authority of superstition,
and of securing his final success by a voluntary renunciation, first of his country, and then of his
life. If these lessons teach us, on one hand, to admire the improvement made by America on the
ancient mode of preparing and establishing regular plans of government, they serve not less, on
the other, to admonish us of the hazards and difficulties incident to such experiments, and of the
great imprudence of unnecessarily multiplying them.

Is it an unreasonable conjecture, that the errors which may be contained in the plan of the
convention are such as have resulted rather from the defect of antecedent experience on this
complicated and difficult subject, than from a want of accuracy or care in the investigation of it;
and, consequently such as will not be ascertained until an actual trial shall have pointed them
out? This conjecture is rendered probable, not only by many considerations of a general nature,
but by the particular case of the Articles of Confederation. It is observable that among the
numerous objections and amendments suggested by the several States, when these articles were
submitted for their ratification, not one is found which alludes to the great and radical error
which on actual trial has discovered itself. And if we except the observations which New Jersey
was led to make, rather by her local situation, than by her peculiar foresight, it may be
questioned whether a single suggestion was of sufficient moment to justify a revision of the
system. There is abundant reason, nevertheless, to suppose that immaterial as these objections
were, they would have been adhered to with a very dangerous inflexibility, in some States, had
not a zeal for their opinions and supposed interests been stifled by the more powerful sentiment
of selfpreservation. One State, we may remember, persisted for several years in refusing her
concurrence, although the enemy remained the whole period at our gates, or rather in the very
bowels of our country. Nor was her pliancy in the end effected by a less motive, than the fear of
being chargeable with protracting the public calamities, and endangering the event of the contest.
Every candid reader will make the proper reflections on these important facts.

A patient who finds his disorder daily growing worse, and that an efficacious remedy can no
longer be delayed without extreme danger, after coolly revolving his situation, and the characters
of different physicians, selects and calls in such of them as he judges most capable of
administering relief, and best entitled to his confidence. The physicians attend; the case of the
patient is carefully examined; a consultation is held; they are unanimously agreed that the
symptoms are critical, but that the case, with proper and timely relief, is so far from being
desperate, that it may be made to issue in an improvement of his constitution. They are equally
unanimous in prescribing the remedy, by which this happy effect is to be produced. The
prescription is no sooner made known, however, than a number of persons interpose, and,



                                                                 171
 
                               


without denying the reality or danger of the disorder, assure the patient that the prescription will
be poison to his constitution, and forbid him, under pain of certain death, to make use of it.
Might not the patient reasonably demand, before he ventured to follow this advice, that the
authors of it should at least agree among themselves on some other remedy to be substituted?
And if he found them differing as much from one another as from his first counsellors, would he
not act prudently in trying the experiment unanimously recommended by the latter, rather than
be hearkening to those who could neither deny the necessity of a speedy remedy, nor agree in
proposing one?

Such a patient and in such a situation is America at this moment. She has been sensible of her
malady. She has obtained a regular and unanimous advice from men of her own deliberate
choice. And she is warned by others against following this advice under pain of the most fatal
consequences. Do the monitors deny the reality of her danger? No. Do they deny the necessity of
some speedy and powerful remedy? No. Are they agreed, are any two of them agreed, in their
objections to the remedy proposed, or in the proper one to be substituted? Let them speak for
themselves. This one tells us that the proposed Constitution ought to be rejected, because it is not
a confederation of the States, but a government over individuals. Another admits that it ought to
be a government over individuals to a certain extent, but by no means to the extent proposed. A
third does not object to the government over individuals, or to the extent proposed, but to the
want of a bill of rights. A fourth concurs in the absolute necessity of a bill of rights, but contends
that it ought to be declaratory, not of the personal rights of individuals, but of the rights reserved
to the States in their political capacity. A fifth is of opinion that a bill of rights of any sort would
be superfluous and misplaced, and that the plan would be unexceptionable but for the fatal power
of regulating the times and places of election. An objector in a large State exclaims loudly
against the unreasonable equality of representation in the Senate. An objector in a small State is
equally loud against the dangerous inequality in the House of Representatives. From this quarter,
we are alarmed with the amazing expense, from the number of persons who are to administer the
new government. From another quarter, and sometimes from the same quarter, on another
occasion, the cry is that the Congress will be but a shadow of a representation, and that the
government would be far less objectionable if the number and the expense were doubled. A
patriot in a State that does not import or export, discerns insuperable objections against the
power of direct taxation. The patriotic adversary in a State of great exports and imports, is not
less dissatisfied that the whole burden of taxes may be thrown on consumption. This politician
discovers in the Constitution a direct and irresistible tendency to monarchy; that is equally sure it
will end in aristocracy. Another is puzzled to say which of these shapes it will ultimately assume,
but sees clearly it must be one or other of them; whilst a fourth is not wanting, who with no less
confidence affirms that the Constitution is so far from having a bias towards either of these
dangers, that the weight on that side will not be sufficient to keep it upright and firm against its
opposite propensities. With another class of adversaries to the Constitution the language is that
the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments are intermixed in such a manner as to
contradict all the ideas of regular government and all the requisite precautions in favor of liberty.
Whilst this objection circulates in vague and general expressions, there are but a few who lend
their sanction to it. Let each one come forward with his particular explanation, and scarce any



                                                                    172
 
                               


two are exactly agreed upon the subject. In the eyes of one the junction of the Senate with the
President in the responsible function of appointing to offices, instead of vesting this executive
power in the Executive alone, is the vicious part of the organization. To another, the exclusion of
the House of Representatives, whose numbers alone could be a due security against corruption
and partiality in the exercise of such a power, is equally obnoxious. With another, the admission
of the President into any share of a power which ever must be a dangerous engine in the hands of
the executive magistrate, is an unpardonable violation of the maxims of republican jealousy. No
part of the arrangement, according to some, is more inadmissible than the trial of impeachments
by the Senate, which is alternately a member both of the legislative and executive departments,
when this power so evidently belonged to the judiciary department. “We concur fully,” reply
others, “in the objection to this part of the plan, but we can never agree that a reference of
impeachments to the judiciary authority would be an amendment of the error. Our principal
dislike to the organization arises from the extensive powers already lodged in that department.”
Even among the zealous patrons of a council of state the most irreconcilable variance is
discovered concerning the mode in which it ought to be constituted. The demand of one
gentleman is, that the council should consist of a small number to be appointed by the most
numerous branch of the legislature. Another would prefer a larger number, and considers it as a
fundamental condition that the appointment should be made by the President himself.

As it can give no umbrage to the writers against the plan of the federal Constitution, let us
suppose, that as they are the most zealous, so they are also the most sagacious, of those who
think the late convention were unequal to the task assigned them, and that a wiser and better plan
might and ought to be substituted. Let us further suppose that their country should concur, both
in this favorable opinion of their merits, and in their unfavorable opinion of the convention; and
should accordingly proceed to form them into a second convention, with full powers, and for the
express purpose of revising and remoulding the work of the first. Were the experiment to be
seriously made, though it required some effort to view it seriously even in fiction, I leave it to be
decided by the sample of opinions just exhibited, whether, with all their enmity to their
predecessors, they would, in any one point, depart so widely from their example, as in the
discord and ferment that would mark their own deliberations; and whether the Constitution, now
before the public, would not stand as fair a chance for immortality, as Lycurgus gave to that of
Sparta, by making its change to depend on his own return from exile and death, if it were to be
immediately adopted, and were to continue in force, not until a BETTER, but until ANOTHER
should be agreed upon by this new assembly of lawgivers.

It is a matter both of wonder and regret, that those who raise so many objections against the new
Constitution should never call to mind the defects of that which is to be exchanged for it. It is not
necessary that the former should be perfect; it is sufficient that the latter is more imperfect. No
man would refuse to give brass for silver or gold, because the latter had some alloy in it. No man
would refuse to quit a shattered and tottering habitation for a firm and commodious building,
because the latter had not a porch to it, or because some of the rooms might be a little larger or
smaller, or the ceilings a little higher or lower than his fancy would have planned them. But
waiving illustrations of this sort, is it not manifest that most of the capital objections urged



                                                                  173
 
                               


against the new system lie with tenfold weight against the existing Confederation? Is an
indefinite power to raise money dangerous in the hands of the federal government? The present
Congress can make requisitions to any amount they please, and the States are constitutionally
bound to furnish them; they can emit bills of credit as long as they will pay for the paper; they
can borrow, both abroad and at home, as long as a shilling will be lent. Is an indefinite power to
raise troops dangerous? The Confederation gives to Congress that power also; and they have
already begun to make use of it. Is it improper and unsafe to intermix the different powers of
government in the same body of men? Congress, a single body of men, are the sole depositary of
all the federal powers. Is it particularly dangerous to give the keys of the treasury, and the
command of the army, into the same hands? The Confederation places them both in the hands of
Congress. Is a bill of rights essential to liberty? The Confederation has no bill of rights. Is it an
objection against the new Constitution, that it empowers the Senate, with the concurrence of the
Executive, to make treaties which are to be the laws of the land? The existing Congress, without
any such control, can make treaties which they themselves have declared, and most of the States
have recognized, to be the supreme law of the land. Is the importation of slaves permitted by the
new Constitution for twenty years? By the old it is permitted forever.

I shall be told, that however dangerous this mixture of powers may be in theory, it is rendered
harmless by the dependence of Congress on the State for the means of carrying them into
practice; that however large the mass of powers may be, it is in fact a lifeless mass. Then, say I,
in the first place, that the Confederation is chargeable with the still greater folly of declaring
certain powers in the federal government to be absolutely necessary, and at the same time
rendering them absolutely nugatory; and, in the next place, that if the Union is to continue, and
no better government be substituted, effective powers must either be granted to, or assumed by,
the existing Congress; in either of which events, the contrast just stated will hold good. But this
is not all. Out of this lifeless mass has already grown an excrescent power, which tends to realize
all the dangers that can be apprehended from a defective construction of the supreme government
of the Union. It is now no longer a point of speculation and hope, that the Western territory is a
mine of vast wealth to the United States; and although it is not of such a nature as to extricate
them from their present distresses, or for some time to come, to yield any regular supplies for the
public expenses, yet must it hereafter be able, under proper management, both to effect a gradual
discharge of the domestic debt, and to furnish, for a certain period, liberal tributes to the federal
treasury. A very large proportion of this fund has been already surrendered by individual States;
and it may with reason be expected that the remaining States will not persist in withholding
similar proofs of their equity and generosity. We may calculate, therefore, that a rich and fertile
country, of an area equal to the inhabited extent of the United States, will soon become a national
stock. Congress have assumed the administration of this stock. They have begun to render it
productive. Congress have undertaken to do more: they have proceeded to form new States, to
erect temporary governments, to appoint officers for them, and to prescribe the conditions on
which such States shall be admitted into the Confederacy. All this has been done; and done
without the least color of constitutional authority. Yet no blame has been whispered; no alarm
has been sounded. A GREAT and INDEPENDENT fund of revenue is passing into the hands of
a SINGLE BODY of men, who can RAISE TROOPS to an INDEFINITE NUMBER, and



                                                                  174
 
                              


appropriate money to their support for an INDEFINITE PERIOD OF TIME. And yet there are
men, who have not only been silent spectators of this prospect, but who are advocates for the
system which exhibits it; and, at the same time, urge against the new system the objections which
we have heard. Would they not act with more consistency, in urging the establishment of the
latter, as no less necessary to guard the Union against the future powers and resources of a body
constructed like the existing Congress, than to save it from the dangers threatened by the present
impotency of that Assembly?

I mean not, by any thing here said, to throw censure on the measures which have been pursued
by Congress. I am sensible they could not have done otherwise. The public interest, the necessity
of the case, imposed upon them the task of overleaping their constitutional limits. But is not the
fact an alarming proof of the danger resulting from a government which does not possess regular
powers commensurate to its objects? A dissolution or usurpation is the dreadful dilemma to
which it is continually exposed.




                                                               175
 
                               



Federalist No. 39 - Conformity of the Plan to Republican Principles
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Wednesday, January 16, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE last paper having concluded the observations which were meant to introduce a candid
survey of the plan of government reported by the convention, we now proceed to the execution
of that part of our undertaking.

The first question that offers itself is, whether the general form and aspect of the government be
strictly republican. It is evident that no other form would be reconcilable with the genius of the
people of America; with the fundamental principles of the Revolution; or with that honorable
determination which animates every votary of freedom, to rest all our political experiments on
the capacity of mankind for self-government. If the plan of the convention, therefore, be found to
depart from the republican character, its advocates must abandon it as no longer defensible.

What, then, are the distinctive characters of the republican form? Were an answer to this
question to be sought, not by recurring to principles, but in the application of the term by
political writers, to the constitution of different States, no satisfactory one would ever be found.
Holland, in which no particle of the supreme authority is derived from the people, has passed
almost universally under the denomination of a republic. The same title has been bestowed on
Venice, where absolute power over the great body of the people is exercised, in the most
absolute manner, by a small body of hereditary nobles. Poland, which is a mixture of aristocracy
and of monarchy in their worst forms, has been dignified with the same appellation. The
government of England, which has one republican branch only, combined with an hereditary
aristocracy and monarchy, has, with equal impropriety, been frequently placed on the list of
republics. These examples, which are nearly as dissimilar to each other as to a genuine republic,
show the extreme inaccuracy with which the term has been used in political disquisitions.

If we resort for a criterion to the different principles on which different forms of government are
established, we may define a republic to be, or at least may bestow that name on, a government
which derives all its powers directly or indirectly from the great body of the people, and is
administered by persons holding their offices during pleasure, for a limited period, or during
good behavior. It is essential to such a government that it be derived from the great body of the
society, not from an inconsiderable proportion, or a favored class of it; otherwise a handful of
tyrannical nobles, exercising their oppressions by a delegation of their powers, might aspire to
the rank of republicans, and claim for their government the honorable title of republic. It is
sufficient for such a government that the persons administering it be appointed, either directly or
indirectly, by the people; and that they hold their appointments by either of the tenures just
specified; otherwise every government in the United States, as well as every other popular



                                                                 176
 
                               


government that has been or can be well organized or well executed, would be degraded from the
republican character. According to the constitution of every State in the Union, some or other of
the officers of government are appointed indirectly only by the people. According to most of
them, the chief magistrate himself is so appointed. And according to one, this mode of
appointment is extended to one of the co-ordinate branches of the legislature. According to all
the constitutions, also, the tenure of the highest offices is extended to a definite period, and in
many instances, both within the legislative and executive departments, to a period of years.
According to the provisions of most of the constitutions, again, as well as according to the most
respectable and received opinions on the subject, the members of the judiciary department are to
retain their offices by the firm tenure of good behavior.

On comparing the Constitution planned by the convention with the standard here fixed, we
perceive at once that it is, in the most rigid sense, conformable to it. The House of
Representatives, like that of one branch at least of all the State legislatures, is elected
immediately by the great body of the people. The Senate, like the present Congress, and the
Senate of Maryland, derives its appointment indirectly from the people. The President is
indirectly derived from the choice of the people, according to the example in most of the States.
Even the judges, with all other officers of the Union, will, as in the several States, be the choice,
though a remote choice, of the people themselves, the duration of the appointments is equally
conformable to the republican standard, and to the model of State constitutions. The House of
Representatives is periodically elective, as in all the States; and for the period of two years, as in
the State of South Carolina. The Senate is elective, for the period of six years; which is but one
year more than the period of the Senate of Maryland, and but two more than that of the Senates
of New York and Virginia. The President is to continue in office for the period of four years; as
in New York and Delaware, the chief magistrate is elected for three years, and in South Carolina
for two years. In the other States the election is annual. In several of the States, however, no
constitutional provision is made for the impeachment of the chief magistrate. And in Delaware
and Virginia he is not impeachable till out of office. The President of the United States is
impeachable at any time during his continuance in office. The tenure by which the judges are to
hold their places, is, as it unquestionably ought to be, that of good behavior. The tenure of the
ministerial offices generally, will be a subject of legal regulation, conformably to the reason of
the case and the example of the State constitutions.

Could any further proof be required of the republican complexion of this system, the most
decisive one might be found in its absolute prohibition of titles of nobility, both under the federal
and the State governments; and in its express guaranty of the republican form to each of the
latter.

“But it was not sufficient,” say the adversaries of the proposed Constitution, “for the convention
to adhere to the republican form. They ought, with equal care, to have preserved the federal
form, which regards the Union as a Confederacy of sovereign states; instead of which, they have
framed a national government, which regards the Union as a consolidation of the States.” And it




                                                                   177
 
                               


is asked by what authority this bold and radical innovation was undertaken? The handle which
has been made of this objection requires that it should be examined with some precision.

Without inquiring into the accuracy of the distinction on which the objection is founded, it will
be necessary to a just estimate of its force, first, to ascertain the real character of the government
in question; secondly, to inquire how far the convention were authorized to propose such a
government; and thirdly, how far the duty they owed to their country could supply any defect of
regular authority.

First. In order to ascertain the real character of the government, it may be considered in relation
to the foundation on which it is to be established; to the sources from which its ordinary powers
are to be drawn; to the operation of those powers; to the extent of them; and to the authority by
which future changes in the government are to be introduced.

On examining the first relation, it appears, on one hand, that the Constitution is to be founded on
the assent and ratification of the people of America, given by deputies elected for the special
purpose; but, on the other, that this assent and ratification is to be given by the people, not as
individuals composing one entire nation, but as composing the distinct and independent States to
which they respectively belong. It is to be the assent and ratification of the several States, derived
from the supreme authority in each State, the authority of the people themselves. The act,
therefore, establishing the Constitution, will not be a national, but a federal act.

That it will be a federal and not a national act, as these terms are understood by the objectors; the
act of the people, as forming so many independent States, not as forming one aggregate nation, is
obvious from this single consideration, that it is to result neither from the decision of a majority
of the people of the Union, nor from that of a majority of the States. It must result from the
unanimous assent of the several States that are parties to it, differing no otherwise from their
ordinary assent than in its being expressed, not by the legislative authority, but by that of the
people themselves. Were the people regarded in this transaction as forming one nation, the will
of the majority of the whole people of the United States would bind the minority, in the same
manner as the majority in each State must bind the minority; and the will of the majority must be
determined either by a comparison of the individual votes, or by considering the will of the
majority of the States as evidence of the will of a majority of the people of the United States.
Neither of these rules have been adopted. Each State, in ratifying the Constitution, is considered
as a sovereign body, independent of all others, and only to be bound by its own voluntary act. In
this relation, then, the new Constitution will, if established, be a federal, and not a national
constitution.

The next relation is, to the sources from which the ordinary powers of government are to be
derived. The House of Representatives will derive its powers from the people of America; and
the people will be represented in the same proportion, and on the same principle, as they are in
the legislature of a particular State. So far the government is national, not federal. The Senate, on
the other hand, will derive its powers from the States, as political and coequal societies; and



                                                                   178
 
                               


these will be represented on the principle of equality in the Senate, as they now are in the
existing Congress. So far the government is federal, not national. The executive power will be
derived from a very compound source. The immediate election of the President is to be made by
the States in their political characters. The votes allotted to them are in a compound ratio, which
considers them partly as distinct and coequal societies, partly as unequal members of the same
society. The eventual election, again, is to be made by that branch of the legislature which
consists of the national representatives; but in this particular act they are to be thrown into the
form of individual delegations, from so many distinct and coequal bodies politic. From this
aspect of the government it appears to be of a mixed character, presenting at least as many
federal as national features.

The difference between a federal and national government, as it relates to the operation of the
government, is supposed to consist in this, that in the former the powers operate on the political
bodies composing the Confederacy, in their political capacities; in the latter, on the individual
citizens composing the nation, in their individual capacities. On trying the Constitution by this
criterion, it falls under the national, not the federal character; though perhaps not so completely
as has been understood. In several cases, and particularly in the trial of controversies to which
States may be parties, they must be viewed and proceeded against in their collective and political
capacities only. So far the national countenance of the government on this side seems to be
disfigured by a few federal features. But this blemish is perhaps unavoidable in any plan; and the
operation of the government on the people, in their individual capacities, in its ordinary and most
essential proceedings, may, on the whole, designate it, in this relation, a national government.

But if the government be national with regard to the operation of its powers, it changes its aspect
again when we contemplate it in relation to the extent of its powers. The idea of a national
government involves in it, not only an authority over the individual citizens, but an indefinite
supremacy over all persons and things, so far as they are objects of lawful government. Among a
people consolidated into one nation, this supremacy is completely vested in the national
legislature. Among communities united for particular purposes, it is vested partly in the general
and partly in the municipal legislatures. In the former case, all local authorities are subordinate to
the supreme; and may be controlled, directed, or abolished by it at pleasure. In the latter, the
local or municipal authorities form distinct and independent portions of the supremacy, no more
subject, within their respective spheres, to the general authority, than the general authority is
subject to them, within its own sphere. In this relation, then, the proposed government cannot be
deemed a national one; since its jurisdiction extends to certain enumerated objects only, and
leaves to the several States a residuary and inviolable sovereignty over all other objects. It is true
that in controversies relating to the boundary between the two jurisdictions, the tribunal which is
ultimately to decide, is to be established under the general government. But this does not change
the principle of the case. The decision is to be impartially made, according to the rules of the
Constitution; and all the usual and most effectual precautions are taken to secure this
impartiality. Some such tribunal is clearly essential to prevent an appeal to the sword and a
dissolution of the compact; and that it ought to be established under the general rather than under




                                                                  179
 
                               


the local governments, or, to speak more properly, that it could be safely established under the
first alone, is a position not likely to be combated.

If we try the Constitution by its last relation to the authority by which amendments are to be
made, we find it neither wholly national nor wholly federal. Were it wholly national, the supreme
and ultimate authority would reside in the majority of the people of the Union; and this authority
would be competent at all times, like that of a majority of every national society, to alter or
abolish its established government. Were it wholly federal, on the other hand, the concurrence of
each State in the Union would be essential to every alteration that would be binding on all. The
mode provided by the plan of the convention is not founded on either of these principles. In
requiring more than a majority, and particularly in computing the proportion by States, not by
citizens, it departs from the national and advances towards the federal character; in rendering the
concurrence of less than the whole number of States sufficient, it loses again the federal and
partakes of the national character.

The proposed Constitution, therefore, [even when tested by the rules laid down by its
antagonists, is, in strictness, neither a national nor a federal Constitution, but a composition of
both. In its foundation it is federal, not national; in the sources from which the ordinary powers
of the government are drawn, it is partly federal and partly national; in the operation of these
powers, it is national, not federal; in the extent of them, again, it is federal, not national; and,
finally, in the authoritative mode of introducing amendments, it is neither wholly federal nor
wholly national.




                                                                   180
 
                              



Federalist No. 40 - On the Powers of the Convention to Form a
Mixed Government Examined and Sustained
Written by James Madison
New York Packet, Friday, January 18, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE second point to be examined is, whether the convention were authorized to frame and
propose this mixed Constitution.

The powers of the convention ought, in strictness, to be determined by an inspection of the
commissions given to the members by their respective constituents. As all of these, however, had
reference, either to the recommendation from the meeting at Annapolis, in September, 1786, or
to that from Congress, in February, 1787, it will be sufficient to recur to these particular acts.

The act from Annapolis recommends the “appointment of commissioners to take into
consideration the situation of the United States; to devise such further provisions as shall appear
to them necessary to render the Constitution of the federal government adequate to the
exigencies of the Union; and to report such an act for that purpose, to the United States in
Congress assembled, as when agreed to by them, and afterwards confirmed by the legislature of
every State, will effectually provide for the same.”

The recommendatory act of Congress is in the words following: "Whereas, there is provision in
the articles of Confederation and perpetual Union, for making alterations therein, by the assent of
a Congress of the United States, and of the legislatures of the several States; and whereas
experience hath evinced, that there are defects in the present Confederation; as a mean to remedy
which, several of the States, and particularly the State of New York, by express instructions to
their delegates in Congress, have suggested a convention for the purposes expressed in the
following resolution; and such convention appearing to be the most probable mean of
establishing in these States a firm national government:

"Resolved — That in the opinion of Congress it is expedient, that on the second Monday of May
next a convention of delegates, who shall have been appointed by the several States, be held at
Philadelphia, for the sole and express purpose of revising the Articles of Confederation, and
reporting to Congress and the several legislatures such alterations and provisions therein, as
shall, when agreed to in Congress, and confirmed by the States, render the federal Constitution
adequate to the exigencies of government and the preservation of the Union."

From these two acts, it appears, 1st, that the object of the convention was to establish, in these
States, a firm national government; 2d, that this government was to be such as would be adequate
to the exigencies of government and the preservation of the union; 3d, that these purposes were


                                                                 181
 
                               


to be effected by alterations and provisions in the Articles of Confederation, as it is expressed in
the act of Congress, or by such further provisions as should appear necessary, as it stands in the
recommendatory act from Annapolis; 4th, that the alterations and provisions were to be reported
to Congress, and to the States, in order to be agreed to by the former and confirmed by the latter.

From a comparison and fair construction of these several modes of expression, is to be deduced
the authority under which the convention acted. They were to frame a national government,
adequate to the exigencies of government, and of the Union; and to reduce the articles of
Confederation into such form as to accomplish these purposes.

There are two rules of construction, dictated by plain reason, as well as founded on legal axioms.
The one is, that every part of the expression ought, if possible, to be allowed some meaning, and
be made to conspire to some common end. The other is, that where the several parts cannot be
made to coincide, the less important should give way to the more important part; the means
should be sacrificed to the end, rather than the end to the means.

Suppose, then, that the expressions defining the authority of the convention were irreconcilably
at variance with each other; that a national and adequate government could not possibly, in the
judgment of the convention, be affected by alterations and provisions in the Articles of
Confederation; which part of the definition ought to have been embraced, and which rejected?
Which was the more important, which the less important part? Which the end; which the means?
Let the most scrupulous expositors of delegated powers; let the most inveterate objectors against
those exercised by the convention, answer these questions. Let them declare, whether it was of
most importance to the happiness of the people of America, that the articles of Confederation
should be disregarded, and an adequate government be provided, and the Union preserved; or
that an adequate government should be omitted, and the articles of Confederation preserved. Let
them declare, whether the preservation of these articles was the end, for securing which a reform
of the government was to be introduced as the means; or whether the establishment of a
government, adequate to the national happiness, was the end at which these articles themselves
originally aimed, and to which they ought, as insufficient means, to have been sacrificed.

But is it necessary to suppose that these expressions are absolutely irreconcilable to each other;
that no alterations or provisions in the Articles of the Confederation could possibly mould them
into a national and adequate government; into such a government as has been proposed by the
convention?

No stress, it is presumed, will, in this case, be laid on the title; a change of that could never be
deemed an exercise of ungranted power. Alterations in the body of the instrument are expressly
authorized. New provisions therein are also expressly authorized. Here then is a power to change
the title; to insert new articles; to alter old ones. Must it of necessity be admitted that this power
is infringed, so long as a part of the old articles remain? Those who maintain the affirmative
ought at least to mark the boundary between authorized and usurped innovations; between that
degree of change which lies within the compass of alterations and further provisions, and that



                                                                   182
 
                              


which amounts to a transmutation of the government. Will it be said that the alterations ought not
to have touched the substance of the Confederation? The States would never have appointed a
convention with so much solemnity, nor described its objects with so much latitude, if some
substantial reform had not been in contemplation. Will it be said that the fundamental principles
of the Confederation were not within the purview of the convention, and ought not to have been
varied? I ask, What are these principles? Do they require that, in the establishment of the
Constitution, the States should be regarded as distinct and independent sovereigns? They are so
regarded by the Constitution proposed. Do they require that the members of the government
should derive their appointment from the legislatures, not from the people of the States? One
branch of the new government is to be appointed by these legislatures; and under the
Confederation, the delegates to Congress may all be appointed immediately by the people, and in
two States1 are actually so appointed. Do they require that the powers of the government should
act on the States, and not immediately on individuals? In some instances, as has been shown, the
powers of the new government will act on the States in their collective characters. In some
instances, also, those of the existing government act immediately on individuals. In cases of
capture; of piracy; of the post office; of coins, weights, and measures; of trade with the Indians;
of claims under grants of land by different States; and, above all, in the case of trials by courts-
marshal in the army and navy, by which death may be inflicted without the intervention of a jury,
or even of a civil magistrate; in all these cases the powers of the Confederation operate
immediately on the persons and interests of individual citizens. Do these fundamental principles
require, particularly, that no tax should be levied without the intermediate agency of the States?
The Confederation itself authorizes a direct tax, to a certain extent, on the post office. The power
of coinage has been so construed by Congress as to levy a tribute immediately from that source
also. But pretermitting these instances, was it not an acknowledged object of the convention and
the universal expectation of the people, that the regulation of trade should be submitted to the
general government in such a form as would render it an immediate source of general revenue?
Had not Congress repeatedly recommended this measure as not inconsistent with the
fundamental principles of the Confederation? Had not every State but one; had not New York
herself, so far complied with the plan of Congress as to recognize the principle of the
innovation? Do these principles, in fine, require that the powers of the general government
should be limited, and that, beyond this limit, the States should be left in possession of their
sovereignty and independence? We have seen that in the new government, as in the old, the
general powers are limited; and that the States, in all unenumerated cases, are left in the
enjoyment of their sovereign and independent jurisdiction.

The truth is, that the great principles of the Constitution proposed by the convention may be
considered less as absolutely new, than as the expansion of principles which are found in the
articles of Confederation. The misfortune under the latter system has been, that these principles
are so feeble and confined as to justify all the charges of inefficiency which have been urged
against it, and to require a degree of enlargement which gives to the new system the aspect of an
entire transformation of the old.




                                                                183
 
                               


In one particular it is admitted that the convention have departed from the tenor of their
commission. Instead of reporting a plan requiring the confirmation [of the legislatures] of all the
states, they have reported a plan which is to be confirmed [by the people,] and may be carried
into effect by nine States only. It is worthy of remark that this objection, though the most
plausible, has been the least urged in the publications which have swarmed against the
convention. The forbearance can only have proceeded from an irresistible conviction of the
absurdity of subjecting the fate of twelve States to the perverseness or corruption of a thirteenth;
from the example of inflexible opposition given by a majority of one sixtieth of the people of
America to a measure approved and called for by the voice of twelve States, comprising fifty-
nine sixtieths of the people an example still fresh in the memory and indignation of every citizen
who has felt for the wounded honor and prosperity of his country. As this objection, therefore,
has been in a manner waived by those who have criticised the powers of the convention, I
dismiss it without further observation.

The third point to be inquired into is, how far considerations of duty arising out of the case itself
could have supplied any defect of regular authority.

In the preceding inquiries the powers of the convention have been analyzed and tried with the
same rigor, and by the same rules, as if they had been real and final powers for the establishment
of a Constitution for the United States. We have seen in what manner they have borne the trial
even on that supposition. It is time now to recollect that the powers were merely advisory and
recommendatory; that they were so meant by the States, and so understood by the convention;
and that the latter have accordingly planned and proposed a Constitution which is to be of no
more consequence than the paper on which it is written, unless it be stamped with the
approbation of those to whom it is addressed. This reflection places the subject in a point of view
altogether different, and will enable us to judge with propriety of the course taken by the
convention.

Let us view the ground on which the convention stood. It may be collected from their
proceedings, that they were deeply and unanimously impressed with the crisis, which had led
their country almost with one voice to make so singular and solemn an experiment for correcting
the errors of a system by which this crisis had been produced; that they were no less deeply and
unanimously convinced that such a reform as they have proposed was absolutely necessary to
effect the purposes of their appointment. It could not be unknown to them that the hopes and
expectations of the great body of citizens, throughout this great empire, were turned with the
keenest anxiety to the event of their deliberations. They had every reason to believe that the
contrary sentiments agitated the minds and bosoms of every external and internal foe to the
liberty and prosperity of the United States. They had seen in the origin and progress of the
experiment, the alacrity with which the proposition, made by a single State (Virginia), towards a
partial amendment of the Confederation, had been attended to and promoted. They had seen the
liberty assumed by a very few deputies from a very few States, convened at Annapolis, of
recommending a great and critical object, wholly foreign to their commission, not only justified
by the public opinion, but actually carried into effect by twelve out of the thirteen States. They



                                                                  184
 
                               


had seen, in a variety of instances, assumptions by Congress, not only of recommendatory, but of
operative, powers, warranted, in the public estimation, by occasions and objects infinitely less
urgent than those by which their conduct was to be governed. They must have reflected, that in
all great changes of established governments, forms ought to give way to substance; that a rigid
adherence in such cases to the former, would render nominal and nugatory the transcendent and
precious right of the people to “abolish or alter their governments as to them shall seem most
likely to effect their safety and happiness,”2 since it is impossible for the people spontaneously
and universally to move in concert towards their object; and it is therefore essential that such
changes be instituted by some informal and unauthorized propositions, made by some patriotic
and respectable citizen or number of citizens. They must have recollected that it was by this
irregular and assumed privilege of proposing to the people plans for their safety and happiness,
that the States were first united against the danger with which they were threatened by their
ancient government; that committees and congresses were formed for concentrating their efforts
and defending their rights; and that conventions were elected in the several States for
establishing the constitutions under which they are now governed; nor could it have been
forgotten that no little ill-timed scruples, no zeal for adhering to ordinary forms, were anywhere
seen, except in those who wished to indulge, under these masks, their secret enmity to the
substance contended for. They must have borne in mind, that as the plan to be framed and
proposed was to be submitted to the people themselves, the disapprobation of this supreme
authority would destroy it forever; its approbation blot out antecedent errors and irregularities. It
might even have occurred to them, that where a disposition to cavil prevailed, their neglect to
execute the degree of power vested in them, and still more their recommendation of any measure
whatever, not warranted by their commission, would not less excite animadversion, than a
recommendation at once of a measure fully commensurate to the national exigencies.

Had the convention, under all these impressions, and in the midst of all these considerations,
instead of exercising a manly confidence in their country, by whose confidence they had been so
peculiarly distinguished, and of pointing out a system capable, in their judgment, of securing its
happiness, taken the cold and sullen resolution of disappointing its ardent hopes, of sacrificing
substance to forms, of committing the dearest interests of their country to the uncertainties of
delay and the hazard of events, let me ask the man who can raise his mind to one elevated
conception, who can awaken in his bosom one patriotic emotion, what judgment ought to have
been pronounced by the impartial world, by the friends of mankind, by every virtuous citizen, on
the conduct and character of this assembly? Or if there be a man whose propensity to condemn is
susceptible of no control, let me then ask what sentence he has in reserve for the twelve States
who usurped the power of sending deputies to the convention, a body utterly unknown to their
constitutions; for Congress, who recommended the appointment of this body, equally unknown
to the Confederation; and for the State of New York, in particular, which first urged and then
complied with this unauthorized interposition?

But that the objectors may be disarmed of every pretext, it shall be granted for a moment that the
convention were neither authorized by their commission, nor justified by circumstances in
proposing a Constitution for their country: does it follow that the Constitution ought, for that



                                                                 185
 
                              


reason alone, to be rejected? If, according to the noble precept, it be lawful to accept good advice
even from an enemy, shall we set the ignoble example of refusing such advice even when it is
offered by our friends? The prudent inquiry, in all cases, ought surely to be, not so much from
whom the advice comes, as whether the advice be good.

The sum of what has been here advanced and proved is, that the charge against the convention of
exceeding their powers, except in one instance little urged by the objectors, has no foundation to
support it; that if they had exceeded their powers, they were not only warranted, but required, as
the confidential servants of their country, by the circumstances in which they were placed, to
exercise the liberty which they assume; and that finally, if they had violated both their powers
and their obligations, in proposing a Constitution, this ought nevertheless to be embraced, if it be
calculated to accomplish the views and happiness of the people of America. How far this
character is due to the Constitution, is the subject under investigation.




                                                                 186
 
                               



Federalist No. 41 - General View of the Powers Conferred by The
Constitution
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Saturday, January 19, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE Constitution proposed by the convention may be considered under two general points of
view. The FIRST relates to the sum or quantity of power which it vests in the government,
including the restraints imposed on the States. The SECOND, to the particular structure of the
government, and the distribution of this power among its several branches.

Under the first view of the subject, two important questions arise: 1. Whether any part of the
powers transferred to the general government be unnecessary or improper? 2. Whether the entire
mass of them be dangerous to the portion of jurisdiction left in the several States?

Is the aggregate power of the general government greater than ought to have been vested in it?
This is the first question.

It cannot have escaped those who have attended with candor to the arguments employed against
the extensive powers of the government, that the authors of them have very little considered how
far these powers were necessary means of attaining a necessary end. They have chosen rather to
dwell on the inconveniences which must be unavoidably blended with all political advantages;
and on the possible abuses which must be incident to every power or trust, of which a beneficial
use can be made. This method of handling the subject cannot impose on the good sense of the
people of America. It may display the subtlety of the writer; it may open a boundless field for
rhetoric and declamation; it may inflame the passions of the unthinking, and may confirm the
prejudices of the misthinking: but cool and candid people will at once reflect, that the purest of
human blessings must have a portion of alloy in them; that the choice must always be made, if
not of the lesser evil, at least of the GREATER, not the PERFECT, good; and that in every
political institution, a power to advance the public happiness involves a discretion which may be
misapplied and abused. They will see, therefore, that in all cases where power is to be conferred,
the point first to be decided is, whether such a power be necessary to the public good; as the next
will be, in case of an affirmative decision, to guard as effectually as possible against a perversion
of the power to the public detriment.

That we may form a correct judgment on this subject, it will be proper to review the several
powers conferred on the government of the Union; and that this may be the more conveniently
done they may be reduced into different classes as they relate to the following different objects:
1. Security against foreign danger; 2. Regulation of the intercourse with foreign nations; 3.
Maintenance of harmony and proper intercourse among the States; 4. Certain miscellaneous


                                                                  187
 
                               


objects of general utility; 5. Restraint of the States from certain injurious acts; 6. Provisions for
giving due efficacy to all these powers.

The powers falling within the first class are those of declaring war and granting letters of
marque; of providing armies and fleets; of regulating and calling forth the militia; of lev
ying and borrowing money.

Security against foreign danger is one of the primitive objects of civil society. It is an avowed
and essential object of the American Union. The powers requisite for attaining it must be
effectually confided to the federal councils.

Is the power of declaring war necessary? No man will answer this question in the negative. It
would be superfluous, therefore, to enter into a proof of the affirmative. The existing
Confederation establishes this power in the most ample form.

Is the power of raising armies and equipping fleets necessary? This is involved in the foregoing
power. It is involved in the power of self-defense.

But was it necessary to give an INDEFINITE POWER of raising TROOPS, as well as providing
fleets; and of maintaining both in PEACE, as well as in WAR?

The answer to these questions has been too far anticipated in another place to admit an extensive
discussion of them in this place. The answer indeed seems to be so obvious and conclusive as
scarcely to justify such a discussion in any place. With what color of propriety could the force
necessary for defense be limited by those who cannot limit the force of offense? If a federal
Constitution could chain the ambition or set bounds to the exertions of all other nations, then
indeed might it prudently chain the discretion of its own government, and set bounds to the
exertions for its own safety.

How could a readiness for war in time of peace be safely prohibited, unless we could prohibit, in
like manner, the preparations and establishments of every hostile nation? The means of security
can only be regulated by the means and the danger of attack. They will, in fact, be ever
determined by these rules, and by no others. It is in vain to oppose constitutional barriers to the
impulse of self-preservation. It is worse than in vain; because it plants in the Constitution itself
necessary usurpations of power, every precedent of which is a germ of unnecessary and
multiplied repetitions. If one nation maintains constantly a disciplined army, ready for the
service of ambition or revenge, it obliges the most pacific nations who may be within the reach
of its enterprises to take corresponding precautions. The fifteenth century was the unhappy epoch
of military establishments in the time of peace. They were introduced by Charles VII. of France.
All Europe has followed, or been forced into, the example. Had the example not been followed
by other nations, all Europe must long ago have worn the chains of a universal monarch. Were
every nation except France now to disband its peace establishments, the same event might




                                                                    188
 
                               


follow. The veteran legions of Rome were an overmatch for the undisciplined valor of all other
nations and rendered her the mistress of the world.

Not the less true is it, that the liberties of Rome proved the final victim to her military triumphs;
and that the liberties of Europe, as far as they ever existed, have, with few exceptions, been the
price of her military establishments. A standing force, therefore, is a dangerous, at the same time
that it may be a necessary, provision. On the smallest scale it has its inconveniences. On an
extensive scale its consequences may be fatal. On any scale it is an object of laudable
circumspection and precaution. A wise nation will combine all these considerations; and, whilst
it does not rashly preclude itself from any resource which may become essential to its safety, will
exert all its prudence in diminishing both the necessity and the danger of resorting to one which
may be inauspicious to its liberties.

The clearest marks of this prudence are stamped on the proposed Constitution. The Union itself,
which it cements and secures, destroys every pretext for a military establishment which could be
dangerous. America united, with a handful of troops, or without a single soldier, exhibits a more
forbidding posture to foreign ambition than America disunited, with a hundred thousand veterans
ready for combat. It was remarked, on a former occasion, that the want of this pretext had saved
the liberties of one nation in Europe. Being rendered by her insular situation and her maritime
resources impregnable to the armies of her neighbors, the rulers of Great Britain have never been
able, by real or artificial dangers, to cheat the public into an extensive peace establishment. The
distance of the United States from the powerful nations of the world gives them the same happy
security. A dangerous establishment can never be necessary or plausible, so long as they
continue a united people. But let it never, for a moment, be forgotten that they are indebted for
this advantage to the Union alone. The moment of its dissolution will be the date of a new order
of things. The fears of the weaker, or the ambition of the stronger States, or Confederacies, will
set the same example in the New, as Charles VII. did in the Old World. The example will be
followed here from the same motives which produced universal imitation there. Instead of
deriving from our situation the precious advantage which Great Britain has derived from hers,
the face of America will be but a copy of that of the continent of Europe. It will present liberty
everywhere crushed between standing armies and perpetual taxes. The fortunes of disunited
America will be even more disastrous than those of Europe. The sources of evil in the latter are
confined to her own limits. No superior powers of another quarter of the globe intrigue among
her rival nations, inflame their mutual animosities, and render them the instruments of foreign
ambition, jealousy, and revenge. In America the miseries springing from her internal jealousies,
contentions, and wars, would form a part only of her lot. A plentiful addition of evils would have
their source in that relation in which Europe stands to this quarter of the earth, and which no
other quarter of the earth bears to Europe.

This picture of the consequences of disunion cannot be too highly colored, or too often exhibited.
Every man who loves peace, every man who loves his country, every man who loves liberty,
ought to have it ever before his eyes, that he may cherish in his heart a due attachment to the
Union of America, and be able to set a due value on the means of preserving it.



                                                                 189
 
                               



Next to the effectual establishment of the Union, the best possible precaution against danger
from standing armies is a limitation of the term for which revenue may be appropriated to their
support. This precaution the Constitution has prudently added. I will not repeat here the
observations which I flatter myself have placed this subject in a just and satisfactory light. But it
may not be improper to take notice of an argument against this part of the Constitution, which
has been drawn from the policy and practice of Great Britain. It is said that the continuance of an
army in that kingdom requires an annual vote of the legislature; whereas the American
Constitution has lengthened this critical period to two years. This is the form in which the
comparison is usually stated to the public: but is it a just form? Is it a fair comparison? Does the
British Constitution restrain the parliamentary discretion to one year? Does the American impose
on the Congress appropriations for two years? On the contrary, it cannot be unknown to the
authors of the fallacy themselves, that the British Constitution fixes no limit whatever to the
discretion of the legislature, and that the American ties down the legislature to two years, as the
longest admissible term.

Had the argument from the British example been truly stated, it would have stood thus: The term
for which supplies may be appropriated to the army establishment, though unlimited by the
British Constitution, has nevertheless, in practice, been limited by parliamentary discretion to a
single year. Now, if in Great Britain, where the House of Commons is elected for seven years;
where so great a proportion of the members are elected by so small a proportion of the people;
where the electors are so corrupted by the representatives, and the representatives so corrupted
by the Crown, the representative body can possess a power to make appropriations to the army
for an indefinite term, without desiring, or without daring, to extend the term beyond a single
year, ought not suspicion herself to blush, in pretending that the representatives of the United
States, elected FREELY by the WHOLE BODY of the people, every SECOND YEAR, cannot
be safely intrusted with the discretion over such appropriations, expressly limited to the short
period of TWO YEARS?

A bad cause seldom fails to betray itself. Of this truth, the management of the opposition to the
federal government is an unvaried exemplification. But among all the blunders which have been
committed, none is more striking than the attempt to enlist on that side the prudent jealousy
entertained by the people, of standing armies. The attempt has awakened fully the public
attention to that important subject; and has led to investigations which must terminate in a
thorough and universal conviction, not only that the constitution has provided the most effectual
guards against danger from that quarter, but that nothing short of a Constitution fully adequate to
the national defense and the preservation of the Union, can save America from as many standing
armies as it may be split into States or Confederacies, and from such a progressive augmentation,
of these establishments in each, as will render them as burdensome to the properties and ominous
to the liberties of the people, as any establishment that can become necessary, under a united and
efficient government, must be tolerable to the former and safe to the latter.




                                                                  190
 
                               


The palpable necessity of the power to provide and maintain a navy has protected that part of the
Constitution against a spirit of censure, which has spared few other parts. It must, indeed, be
numbered among the greatest blessings of America, that as her Union will be the only source of
her maritime strength, so this will be a principal source of her security against danger from
abroad. In this respect our situation bears another likeness to the insular advantage of Great
Britain. The batteries most capable of repelling foreign enterprises on our safety, are happily
such as can never be turned by a perfidious government against our liberties.

The inhabitants of the Atlantic frontier are all of them deeply interested in this provision for
naval protection, and if they have hitherto been suffered to sleep quietly in their beds; if their
property has remained safe against the predatory spirit of licentious adventurers; if their maritime
towns have not yet been compelled to ransom themselves from the terrors of a conflagration, by
yielding to the exactions of daring and sudden invaders, these instances of good fortune are not
to be ascribed to the capacity of the existing government for the protection of those from whom
it claims allegiance, but to causes that are fugitive and fallacious. If we except perhaps Virginia
and Maryland, which are peculiarly vulnerable on their eastern frontiers, no part of the Union
ought to feel more anxiety on this subject than New York. Her seacoast is extensive. A very
important district of the State is an island. The State itself is penetrated by a large navigable river
for more than fifty leagues. The great emporium of its commerce, the great reservoir of its
wealth, lies every moment at the mercy of events, and may almost be regarded as a hostage for
ignominious compliances with the dictates of a foreign enemy, or even with the rapacious
demands of pirates and barbarians. Should a war be the result of the precarious situation of
European affairs, and all the unruly passions attending it be let loose on the ocean, our escape
from insults and depredations, not only on that element, but every part of the other bordering on
it, will be truly miraculous. In the present condition of America, the States more immediately
exposed to these calamities have nothing to hope from the phantom of a general government
which now exists; and if their single resources were equal to the task of fortifying themselves
against the danger, the object to be protected would be almost consumed by the means of
protecting them.

The power of regulating and calling forth the militia has been already sufficiently vindicated and
explained.

The power of levying and borrowing money, being the sinew of that which is to be exerted in the
national defense, is properly thrown into the same class with it. This power, also, has been
examined already with much attention, and has, I trust, been clearly shown to be necessary, both
in the extent and form given to it by the Constitution. I will address one additional reflection only
to those who contend that the power ought to have been restrained to external — taxation by
which they mean, taxes on articles imported from other countries. It cannot be doubted that this
will always be a valuable source of revenue; that for a considerable time it must be a principal
source; that at this moment it is an essential one. But we may form very mistaken ideas on this
subject, if we do not call to mind in our calculations, that the extent of revenue drawn from
foreign commerce must vary with the variations, both in the extent and the kind of imports; and



                                                                   191
 
                               


that these variations do not correspond with the progress of population, which must be the
general measure of the public wants. As long as agriculture continues the sole field of labor, the
importation of manufactures must increase as the consumers multiply. As soon as domestic
manufactures are begun by the hands not called for by agriculture, the imported manufactures
will decrease as the numbers of people increase. In a more remote stage, the imports may consist
in a considerable part of raw materials, which will be wrought into articles for exportation, and
will, therefore, require rather the encouragement of bounties, than to be loaded with discouraging
duties. A system of government, meant for duration, ought to contemplate these revolutions, and
be able to accommodate itself to them.

Some, who have not denied the necessity of the power of taxation, have grounded a very fierce
attack against the Constitution, on the language in which it is defined. It has been urged and
echoed, that the power “to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay the debts,
and provide for the common defense and general welfare of the United States,” amounts to an
unlimited commission to exercise every power which may be alleged to be necessary for the
common defense or general welfare. No stronger proof could be given of the distress under
which these writers labor for objections, than their stooping to such a misconstruction.

Had no other enumeration or definition of the powers of the Congress been found in the
Constitution, than the general expressions just cited, the authors of the objection might have had
some color for it; though it would have been difficult to find a reason for so awkward a form of
describing an authority to legislate in all possible cases. A power to destroy the freedom of the
press, the trial by jury, or even to regulate the course of descents, or the forms of conveyances,
must be very singularly expressed by the terms “to raise money for the general welfare.”

But what color can the objection have, when a specification of the objects alluded to by these
general terms immediately follows, and is not even separated by a longer pause than a
semicolon? If the different parts of the same instrument ought to be so expounded, as to give
meaning to every part which will bear it, shall one part of the same sentence be excluded
altogether from a share in the meaning; and shall the more doubtful and indefinite terms be
retained in their full extent, and the clear and precise expressions be denied any signification
whatsoever? For what purpose could the enumeration of particular powers be inserted, if these
and all others were meant to be included in the preceding general power? Nothing is more
natural nor common than first to use a general phrase, and then to explain and qualify it by a
recital of particulars. But the idea of an enumeration of particulars which neither explain nor
qualify the general meaning, and can have no other effect than to confound and mislead, is an
absurdity, which, as we are reduced to the dilemma of charging either on the authors of the
objection or on the authors of the Constitution, we must take the liberty of supposing, had not its
origin with the latter.

The objection here is the more extraordinary, as it appears that the language used by the
convention is a copy from the articles of Confederation. The objects of the Union among the
States, as described in article third, are "their common defense, security of their liberties, and



                                                                   192
 
                              


mutual and general welfare." The terms of article eighth are still more identical: "All charges of
war and all other expenses that shall be incurred for the common defense or general welfare, and
allowed by the United States in Congress, shall be defrayed out of a common treasury," etc. A
similar language again occurs in article ninth. Construe either of these articles by the rules which
would justify the construction put on the new Constitution, and they vest in the existing Congress
a power to legislate in all cases whatsoever. But what would have been thought of that assembly,
if, attaching themselves to these general expressions, and disregarding the specifications which
ascertain and limit their import, they had exercised an unlimited power of providing for the
common defense and general welfare? I appeal to the objectors themselves, whether they would
in that case have employed the same reasoning in justification of Congress as they now make use
of against the convention. How difficult it is for error to escape its own condemnation!




                                                                193
 
                              


Federalist No. 42 - The Powers Conferred by the Constitution Further
Considered

Written by James Madison
New York Packet, Tuesday, January 22, 1788


To the People of the State of New York:

THE second class of powers, lodged in the general government, consists of those which regulate
the intercourse with foreign nations, to wit: to make treaties; to send and receive ambassadors,
other public ministers, and consuls; to define and punish piracies and felonies committed on the
high seas, and offenses against the law of nations; to regulate foreign commerce, including a
power to prohibit, after the year 1808, the importation of slaves, and to lay an intermediate duty
of ten dollars per head, as a discouragement to such importations.

This class of powers forms an obvious and essential branch of the federal administration. If we
are to be one nation in any respect, it clearly ought to be in respect to other nations.

The powers to make treaties and to send and receive ambassadors, speak their own propriety.
Both of them are comprised in the articles of Confederation, with this difference only, that the
former is disembarrassed, by the plan of the convention, of an exception, under which treaties
might be substantially frustrated by regulations of the States; and that a power of appointing and
receiving “other public ministers and consuls,” is expressly and very properly added to the
former provision concerning ambassadors. The term ambassador, if taken strictly, as seems to be
required by the second of the articles of Confederation, comprehends the highest grade only of
public ministers, and excludes the grades which the United States will be most likely to prefer,
where foreign embassies may be necessary. And under no latitude of construction will the term
comprehend consuls. Yet it has been found expedient, and has been the practice of Congress, to
employ the inferior grades of public ministers, and to send and receive consuls.

It is true, that where treaties of commerce stipulate for the mutual appointment of consuls, whose
functions are connected with commerce, the admission of foreign consuls may fall within the
power of making commercial treaties; and that where no such treaties exist, the mission of
American consuls into foreign countries may perhaps be covered under the authority, given by
the ninth article of the Confederation, to appoint all such civil officers as may be necessary for
managing the general affairs of the United States. But the admission of consuls into the United
States, where no previous treaty has stipulated it, seems to have been nowhere provided for. A
supply of the omission is one of the lesser instances in which the convention have improved on
the model before them. But the most minute provisions become important when they tend to
obviate the necessity or the pretext for gradual and unobserved usurpations of power. A list of
the cases in which Congress have been betrayed, or forced by the defects of the Confederation,


                                                               194
 
                               


into violations of their chartered authorities, would not a little surprise those who have paid no
attention to the subject; and would be no inconsiderable argument in favor of the new
Constitution, which seems to have provided no less studiously for the lesser, than the more
obvious and striking defects of the old.

The power to define and punish piracies and felonies committed on the high seas, and offenses
against the law of nations, belongs with equal propriety to the general government, and is a still
greater improvement on the articles of Confederation. These articles contain no provision for the
case of offenses against the law of nations; and consequently leave it in the power of any
indiscreet member to embroil the Confederacy with foreign nations. The provision of the federal
articles on the subject of piracies and felonies extends no further than to the establishment of
courts for the trial of these offenses. The definition of piracies might, perhaps, without
inconveniency, be left to the law of nations; though a legislative definition of them is found in
most municipal codes. A definition of felonies on the high seas is evidently requisite. Felony is a
term of loose signification, even in the common law of England; and of various import in the
statute law of that kingdom. But neither the common nor the statute law of that, or of any other
nation, ought to be a standard for the proceedings of this, unless previously made its own by
legislative adoption. The meaning of the term, as defined in the codes of the several States,
would be as impracticable as the former would be a dishonorable and illegitimate guide. It is not
precisely the same in any two of the States; and varies in each with every revision of its criminal
laws. For the sake of certainty and uniformity, therefore, the power of defining felonies in this
case was in every respect necessary and proper.

The regulation of foreign commerce, having fallen within several views which have been taken
of this subject, has been too fully discussed to need additional proofs here of its being properly
submitted to the federal administration.

It were doubtless to be wished, that the power of prohibiting the importation of slaves had not
been postponed until the year 1808, or rather that it had been suffered to have immediate
operation. But it is not difficult to account, either for this restriction on the general government,
or for the manner in which the whole clause is expressed. It ought to be considered as a great
point gained in favor of humanity, that a period of twenty years may terminate forever, within
these States, a traffic which has so long and so loudly upbraided the barbarism of modern policy;
that within that period, it will receive a considerable discouragement from the federal
government, and may be totally abolished, by a concurrence of the few States which continue the
unnatural traffic, in the prohibitory example which has been given by so great a majority of the
Union. Happy would it be for the unfortunate Africans, if an equal prospect lay before them of
being redeemed from the oppressions of their European brethren!

Attempts have been made to pervert this clause into an objection against the Constitution, by
representing it on one side as a criminal toleration of an illicit practice, and on another as
calculated to prevent voluntary and beneficial emigrations from Europe to America. I mention
these misconstructions, not with a view to give them an answer, for they deserve none, but as



                                                                 195
 
                               


specimens of the manner and spirit in which some have thought fit to conduct their opposition to
the proposed government.

The powers included in the third class are those which provide for the harmony and proper
intercourse among the States.

Under this head might be included the particular restraints imposed on the authority of the States,
and certain powers of the judicial department; but the former are reserved for a distinct class, and
the latter will be particularly examined when we arrive at the structure and organization of the
government. I shall confine myself to a cursory review of the remaining powers comprehended
under this third description, to wit: to regulate commerce among the several States and the Indian
tribes; to coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin; to provide for the
punishment of counterfeiting the current coin and secureties of the United States; to fix the
standard of weights and measures; to establish a uniform rule of naturalization, and uniform laws
of bankruptcy, to prescribe the manner in which the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings
of each State shall be proved, and the effect they shall have in other States; and to establish post
offices and post roads.

The defect of power in the existing Confederacy to regulate the commerce between its several
members, is in the number of those which have been clearly pointed out by experience. To the
proofs and remarks which former papers have brought into view on this subject, it may be added
that without this supplemental provision, the great and essential power of regulating foreign
commerce would have been incomplete and ineffectual. A very material object of this power was
the relief of the States which import and export through other States, from the improper
contributions levied on them by the latter. Were these at liberty to regulate the trade between
State and State, it must be foreseen that ways would be found out to load the articles of import
and export, during the passage through their jurisdiction, with duties which would fall on the
makers of the latter and the consumers of the former. We may be assured by past experience, that
such a practice would be introduced by future contrivances; and both by that and a common
knowledge of human affairs, that it would nourish unceasing animosities, and not improbably
terminate in serious interruptions of the public tranquillity. To those who do not view the
question through the medium of passion or of interest, the desire of the commercial States to
collect, in any form, an indirect revenue from their uncommercial neighbors, must appear not
less impolitic than it is unfair; since it would stimulate the injured party, by resentment as well as
interest, to resort to less convenient channels for their foreign trade. But the mild voice of reason,
pleading the cause of an enlarged and permanent interest, is but too often drowned, before public
bodies as well as individuals, by the clamors of an impatient avidity for immediate and
immoderate gain.

The necessity of a superintending authority over the reciprocal trade of confederated States, has
been illustrated by other examples as well as our own. In Switzerland, where the Union is so
very slight, each canton is obliged to allow to merchandises a passage through its jurisdiction
into other cantons, without an augmentation of the tolls. In Germany it is a law of the empire,



                                                                  196
 
                               


that the princes and states shall not lay tolls or customs on bridges, rivers, or passages, without
the consent of the emperor and the diet; though it appears from a quotation in an antecedent
paper, that the practice in this, as in many other instances in that confederacy, has not followed
the law, and has produced there the mischiefs which have been foreseen here. Among the
restraints imposed by the Union of the Netherlands on its members, one is, that they shall not
establish imposts disadvantageous to their neighbors, without the general permission.

The regulation of commerce with the Indian tribes is very properly unfettered from two
limitations in the articles of Confederation, which render the provision obscure and
contradictory. The power is there restrained to Indians, not members of any of the States, and is
not to violate or infringe the legislative right of any State within its own limits. What description
of Indians are to be deemed members of a State, is not yet settled, and has been a question of
frequent perplexity and contention in the federal councils. And how the trade with Indians,
though not members of a State, yet residing within its legislative jurisdiction, can be regulated by
an external authority, without so far intruding on the internal rights of legislation, is absolutely
incomprehensible. This is not the only case in which the articles of Confederation have
inconsiderately endeavored to accomplish impossibilities; to reconcile a partial sovereignty in
the Union, with complete sovereignty in the States; to subvert a mathematical axiom, by taking
away a part, and letting the whole remain.

All that need be remarked on the power to coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign
coin, is, that by providing for this last case, the Constitution has supplied a material omission in
the articles of Confederation. The authority of the existing Congress is restrained to the
regulation of coin struck by their own authority, or that of the respective States. It must be seen
at once that the proposed uniformity in the value of the current coin might be destroyed by
subjecting that of foreign coin to the different regulations of the different States.

The punishment of counterfeiting the public securities, as well as the current coin, is submitted
of course to that authority which is to secure the value of both.

The regulation of weights and measures is transferred from the articles of Confederation, and is
founded on like considerations with the preceding power of regulating coin.

The dissimilarity in the rules of naturalization has long been remarked as a fault in our system,
and as laying a foundation for intricate and delicate questions. In the fourth article of the
Confederation, it is declared “that the free inhabitants of each of these States, paupers,
vagabonds, and fugitives from justice, excepted, shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities
of free citizens in the several States; and the people of each State shall, in every other, enjoy all
the privileges of trade and commerce,” etc. There is a confusion of language here, which is
remarkable. Why the terms free inhabitants are used in one part of the article, free citizens in
another, and people in another; or what was meant by superadding to “all privileges and
immunities of free citizens,” “all the privileges of trade and commerce,” cannot easily be
determined. It seems to be a construction scarcely avoidable, however, that those who come



                                                                  197
 
                                


under the denomination of free inhabitants of a State, although not citizens of such State, are
entitled, in every other State, to all the privileges of free citizens of the latter; that is, to greater
privileges than they may be entitled to in their own State: so that it may be in the power of a
particular State, or rather every State is laid under a necessity, not only to confer the rights of
citizenship in other States upon any whom it may admit to such rights within itself, but upon any
whom it may allow to become inhabitants within its jurisdiction. But were an exposition of the
term “inhabitants” to be admitted which would confine the stipulated privileges to citizens alone,
the difficulty is diminished only, not removed. The very improper power would still be retained
by each State, of naturalizing aliens in every other State. In one State, residence for a short term
confirms all the rights of citizenship: in another, qualifications of greater importance are
required. An alien, therefore, legally incapacitated for certain rights in the latter, may, by
previous residence only in the former, elude his incapacity; and thus the law of one State be
preposterously rendered paramount to the law of another, within the jurisdiction of the other. We
owe it to mere casualty, that very serious embarrassments on this subject have been hitherto
escaped. By the laws of several States, certain descriptions of aliens, who had rendered
themselves obnoxious, were laid under interdicts inconsistent not only with the rights of
citizenship but with the privilege of residence. What would have been the consequence, if such
persons, by residence or otherwise, had acquired the character of citizens under the laws of
another State, and then asserted their rights as such, both to residence and citizenship, within the
State proscribing them? Whatever the legal consequences might have been, other consequences
would probably have resulted, of too serious a nature not to be provided against. The new
Constitution has accordingly, with great propriety, made provision against them, and all others
proceeding from the defect of the Confederation on this head, by authorizing the general
government to establish a uniform rule of naturalization throughout the United States.

The power of establishing uniform laws of bankruptcy is so intimately connected with the
regulation of commerce, and will prevent so many frauds where the parties or their property may
lie or be removed into different States, that the expediency of it seems not likely to be drawn into
question.

The power of prescribing by general laws, the manner in which the public acts, records and
judicial proceedings of each State shall be proved, and the effect they shall have in other States,
is an evident and valuable improvement on the clause relating to this subject in the articles of
Confederation. The meaning of the latter is extremely indeterminate, and can be of little
importance under any interpretation which it will bear. The power here established may be
rendered a very convenient instrument of justice, and be particularly beneficial on the borders of
contiguous States, where the effects liable to justice may be suddenly and secretly translated, in
any stage of the process, within a foreign jurisdiction.

The power of establishing post roads must, in every view, be a harmless power, and may,
perhaps, by judicious management, become productive of great public conveniency. Nothing
which tends to facilitate the intercourse between the States can be deemed unworthy of the
public care.



                                                                     198
 
                               



Federalist No. 43 - The Powers Conferred by the Constitution
Further Considered (continued)
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Wednesday, January 23, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE fourth class comprises the following miscellaneous powers:

1. A power “to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing, for a limited time, to
authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries.”

The utility of this power will scarcely be questioned. The copyright of authors has been solemnly
adjudged, in Great Britain, to be a right of common law. The right to useful inventions seems
with equal reason to belong to the inventors. The public good fully coincides in both cases with
the claims of individuals. The States cannot separately make effectual provisions for either of the
cases, and most of them have anticipated the decision of this point, by laws passed at the instance
of Congress.

2. “To exercise exclusive legislation, in all cases whatsoever, over such district (not exceeding
ten miles square) as may, by cession of particular States and the acceptance of Congress, become
the seat of the government of the United States; and to exercise like authority over all places
purchased by the consent of the legislatures of the States in which the same shall be, for the
erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards, and other needful buildings.”

The indispensable necessity of complete authority at the seat of government, carries its own
evidence with it. It is a power exercised by every legislature of the Union, I might say of the
world, by virtue of its general supremacy. Without it, not only the public authority might be
insulted and its proceedings interrupted with impunity; but a dependence of the members of the
general government on the State comprehending the seat of the government, for protection in the
exercise of their duty, might bring on the national councils an imputation of awe or influence,
equally dishonorable to the government and dissatisfactory to the other members of the
Confederacy. This consideration has the more weight, as the gradual accumulation of public
improvements at the stationary residence of the government would be both too great a public
pledge to be left in the hands of a single State, and would create so many obstacles to a removal
of the government, as still further to abridge its necessary independence. The extent of this
federal district is sufficiently circumscribed to satisfy every jealousy of an opposite nature. And
as it is to be appropriated to this use with the consent of the State ceding it; as the State will no
doubt provide in the compact for the rights and the consent of the citizens inhabiting it; as the
inhabitants will find sufficient inducements of interest to become willing parties to the cession;
as they will have had their voice in the election of the government which is to exercise authority


                                                                  199
 
                               


over them; as a municipal legislature for local purposes, derived from their own suffrages, will of
course be allowed them; and as the authority of the legislature of the State, and of the inhabitants
of the ceded part of it, to concur in the cession, will be derived from the whole people of the
State in their adoption of the Constitution, every imaginable objection seems to be obviated.

The necessity of a like authority over forts, magazines, etc., established by the general
government, is not less evident. The public money expended on such places, and the public
property deposited in them, requires that they should be exempt from the authority of the
particular State. Nor would it be proper for the places on which the security of the entire Union
may depend, to be in any degree dependent on a particular member of it. All objections and
scruples are here also obviated, by requiring the concurrence of the States concerned, in every
such establishment.

3. “To declare the punishment of treason, but no attainder of treason shall work corruption of
blood, or forfeiture, except during the life of the person attained.”

As treason may be committed against the United States, the authority of the United States ought
to be enabled to punish it. But as new-fangled and artificial treasons have been the great engines
by which violent factions, the natural offspring of free government, have usually wreaked their
alternate malignity on each other, the convention have, with great judgment, opposed a barrier to
this peculiar danger, by inserting a constitutional definition of the crime, fixing the proof
necessary for conviction of it, and restraining the Congress, even in punishing it, from extending
the consequences of guilt beyond the person of its author.

4. “To admit new States into the Union; but no new State shall be formed or erected within the
jurisdiction of any other State; nor any State be formed by the junction of two or more States, or
parts of States, without the consent of the legislatures of the States concerned, as well as of the
Congress.”

In the articles of Confederation, no provision is found on this important subject. Canada was to
be admitted of right, on her joining in the measures of the United States; and the other colonies,
by which were evidently meant the other British colonies, at the discretion of nine States. The
eventual establishment of new States seems to have been overlooked by the compilers of that
instrument. We have seen the inconvenience of this omission, and the assumption of power into
which Congress have been led by it. With great propriety, therefore, has the new system supplied
the defect. The general precaution, that no new States shall be formed, without the concurrence
of the federal authority, and that of the States concerned, is consonant to the principles which
ought to govern such transactions. The particular precaution against the erection of new States,
by the partition of a State without its consent, quiets the jealousy of the larger States; as that of
the smaller is quieted by a like precaution, against a junction of States without their consent.




                                                                  200
 
                              


5. “To dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other
property belonging to the United States,” with a proviso, that “nothing in the Constitution shall
be so construed as to prejudice any claims of the United States, or of any particular State.”

This is a power of very great importance, and required by considerations similar to those which
show the propriety of the former. The proviso annexed is proper in itself, and was probably
rendered absolutely necessary by jealousies and questions concerning the Western territory
sufficiently known to the public.

6. “To guarantee to every State in the Union a republican form of government; to protect each of
them against invasion; and on application of the legislature, or of the executive (when the
legislature cannot be convened), against domestic violence.”

In a confederacy founded on republican principles, and composed of republican members, the
superintending government ought clearly to possess authority to defend the system against
aristocratic or monarchial innovations. The more intimate the nature of such a union may be, the
greater interest have the members in the political institutions of each other; and the greater right
to insist that the forms of government under which the compact was entered into should be
substantially maintained. But a right implies a remedy; and where else could the remedy be
deposited, than where it is deposited by the Constitution? Governments of dissimilar principles
and forms have been found less adapted to a federal coalition of any sort, than those of a kindred
nature. “As the confederate republic of Germany,” says Montesquieu, “consists of free cities and
petty states, subject to different princes, experience shows us that it is more imperfect than that
of Holland and Switzerland.” “Greece was undone,” he adds, “as soon as the king of Macedon
obtained a seat among the Amphictyons.” In the latter case, no doubt, the disproportionate force,
as well as the monarchical form, of the new confederate, had its share of influence on the events.
It may possibly be asked, what need there could be of such a precaution, and whether it may not
become a pretext for alterations in the State governments, without the concurrence of the States
themselves. These questions admit of ready answers. If the interposition of the general
government should not be needed, the provision for such an event will be a harmless superfluity
only in the Constitution. But who can say what experiments may be produced by the caprice of
particular States, by the ambition of enterprising leaders, or by the intrigues and influence of
foreign powers? To the second question it may be answered, that if the general government
should interpose by virtue of this constitutional authority, it will be, of course, bound to pursue
the authority. But the authority extends no further than to a guaranty of a republican form of
government, which supposes a pre-existing government of the form which is to be guaranteed.
As long, therefore, as the existing republican forms are continued by the States, they are
guaranteed by the federal Constitution. Whenever the States may choose to substitute other
republican forms, they have a right to do so, and to claim the federal guaranty for the latter. The
only restriction imposed on them is, that they shall not exchange republican for antirepublican
Constitutions; a restriction which, it is presumed, will hardly be considered as a grievance.




                                                                 201
 
                               


A protection against invasion is due from every society to the parts composing it. The latitude of
the expression here used seems to secure each State, not only against foreign hostility, but
against ambitious or vindictive enterprises of its more powerful neighbors. The history, both of
ancient and modern confederacies, proves that the weaker members of the union ought not to be
insensible to the policy of this article.

Protection against domestic violence is added with equal propriety. It has been remarked, that
even among the Swiss cantons, which, properly speaking, are not under one government,
provision is made for this object; and the history of that league informs us that mutual aid is
frequently claimed and afforded; and as well by the most democratic, as the other cantons. A
recent and well-known event among ourselves has warned us to be prepared for emergencies of a
like nature.

At first view, it might seem not to square with the republican theory, to suppose, either that a
majority have not the right, or that a minority will have the force, to subvert a government; and
consequently, that the federal interposition can never be required, but when it would be
improper. But theoretic reasoning, in this as in most other cases, must be qualified by the lessons
of practice. Why may not illicit combinations, for purposes of violence, be formed as well by a
majority of a State, especially a small State as by a majority of a county, or a district of the same
State; and if the authority of the State ought, in the latter case, to protect the local magistracy,
ought not the federal authority, in the former, to support the State authority? Besides, there are
certain parts of the State constitutions which are so interwoven with the federal Constitution, that
a violent blow cannot be given to the one without communicating the wound to the other.
Insurrections in a State will rarely induce a federal interposition, unless the number concerned in
them bear some proportion to the friends of government. It will be much better that the violence
in such cases should be repressed by the superintending power, than that the majority should be
left to maintain their cause by a bloody and obstinate contest. The existence of a right to
interpose, will generally prevent the necessity of exerting it.

Is it true that force and right are necessarily on the same side in republican governments? May
not the minor party possess such a superiority of pecuniary resources, of military talents and
experience, or of secret succors from foreign powers, as will render it superior also in an appeal
to the sword? May not a more compact and advantageous position turn the scale on the same
side, against a superior number so situated as to be less capable of a prompt and collected
exertion of its strength? Nothing can be more chimerical than to imagine that in a trial of actual
force, victory may be calculated by the rules which prevail in a census of the inhabitants, or
which determine the event of an election! May it not happen, in fine, that the minority of citizens
may become a majority of persons, by the accession of alien residents, of a casual concourse of
adventurers, or of those whom the constitution of the State has not admitted to the rights of
suffrage? I take no notice of an unhappy species of population abounding in some of the States,
who, during the calm of regular government, are sunk below the level of men; but who, in the
tempestuous scenes of civil violence, may emerge into the human character, and give a
superiority of strength to any party with which they may associate themselves.



                                                                  202
 
                               



In cases where it may be doubtful on which side justice lies, what better umpires could be
desired by two violent factions, flying to arms, and tearing a State to pieces, than the
representatives of confederate States, not heated by the local flame? To the impartiality of
judges, they would unite the affection of friends. Happy would it be if such a remedy for its
infirmities could be enjoyed by all free governments; if a project equally effectual could be
established for the universal peace of mankind!

Should it be asked, what is to be the redress for an insurrection pervading all the States, and
comprising a superiority of the entire force, though not a constitutional right? The answer must
be, that such a case, as it would be without the compass of human remedies, so it is fortunately
not within the compass of human probability; and that it is a sufficient recommendation of the
federal Constitution, that it diminishes the risk of a calamity for which no possible constitution
can provide a cure.

Among the advantages of a confederate republic enumerated by Montesquieu, an important one
is, “that should a popular insurrection happen in one of the States, the others are able to quell it.
Should abuses creep into one part, they are reformed by those that remain sound.”

7. “To consider all debts contracted, and engagements entered into, before the adoption of this
Constitution, as being no less valid against the United States, under this Constitution, than under
the Confederation.”

This can only be considered as a declaratory proposition; and may have been inserted, among
other reasons, for the satisfaction of the foreign creditors of the United States, who cannot be
strangers to the pretended doctrine, that a change in the political form of civil society has the
magical effect of dissolving its moral obligations.

Among the lesser criticisms which have been exercised on the Constitution, it has been remarked
that the validity of engagements ought to have been asserted in favor of the United States, as well
as against them; and in the spirit which usually characterizes little critics, the omission has been
transformed and magnified into a plot against the national rights. The authors of this discovery
may be told, what few others need to be informed of, that as engagements are in their nature
reciprocal, an assertion of their validity on one side, necessarily involves a validity on the other
side; and that as the article is merely declaratory, the establishment of the principle in one case is
sufficient for every case. They may be further told, that every constitution must limit its
precautions to dangers that are not altogether imaginary; and that no real danger can exist that the
government would dare, with, or even without, this constitutional declaration before it, to remit
the debts justly due to the public, on the pretext here condemned.

8. “To provide for amendments to be ratified by three fourths of the States under two exceptions
only.”




                                                                   203
 
                               


That useful alterations will be suggested by experience, could not but be foreseen. It was
requisite, therefore, that a mode for introducing them should be provided. The mode preferred by
the convention seems to be stamped with every mark of propriety. It guards equally against that
extreme facility, which would render the Constitution too mutable; and that extreme difficulty,
which might perpetuate its discovered faults. It, moreover, equally enables the general and the
State governments to originate the amendment of errors, as they may be pointed out by the
experience on one side, or on the other. The exception in favor of the equality of suffrage in the
Senate, was probably meant as a palladium to the residuary sovereignty of the States, implied
and secured by that principle of representation in one branch of the legislature; and was probably
insisted on by the States particularly attached to that equality. The other exception must have
been admitted on the same considerations which produced the privilege defended by it.

9. “The ratification of the conventions of nine States shall be sufficient for the establishment of
this Constitution between the States, ratifying the same.”

This article speaks for itself. The express authority of the people alone could give due validity to
the Constitution. To have required the unanimous ratification of the thirteen States, would have
subjected the essential interests of the whole to the caprice or corruption of a single member. It
would have marked a want of foresight in the convention, which our own experience would have
rendered inexcusable.

Two questions of a very delicate nature present themselves on this occasion: 1. On what
principle the Confederation, which stands in the solemn form of a compact among the States, can
be superseded without the unanimous consent of the parties to it? 2. What relation is to subsist
between the nine or more States ratifying the Constitution, and the remaining few who do not
become parties to it?

The first question is answered at once by recurring to the absolute necessity of the case; to the
great principle of self-preservation; to the transcendent law of nature and of nature’s God, which
declares that the safety and happiness of society are the objects at which all political institutions
aim, and to which all such institutions must be sacrificed. Perhaps, also, an answer may be found
without searching beyond the principles of the compact itself. It has been heretofore noted
among the defects of the Confederation, that in many of the States it had received no higher
sanction than a mere legislative ratification. The principle of reciprocality seems to require that
its obligation on the other States should be reduced to the same standard. A compact between
independent sovereigns, founded on ordinary acts of legislative authority, can pretend to no
higher validity than a league or treaty between the parties. It is an established doctrine on the
subject of treaties, that all the articles are mutually conditions of each other; that a breach of any
one article is a breach of the whole treaty; and that a breach, committed by either of the parties,
absolves the others, and authorizes them, if they please, to pronounce the compact violated and
void. Should it unhappily be necessary to appeal to these delicate truths for a justification for
dispensing with the consent of particular States to a dissolution of the federal pact, will not the
complaining parties find it a difficult task to answer the multiplied and important infractions with



                                                                  204
 
                              


which they may be confronted? The time has been when it was incumbent on us all to veil the
ideas which this paragraph exhibits. The scene is now changed, and with it the part which the
same motives dictate.

The second question is not less delicate; and the flattering prospect of its being merely
hypothetical forbids an overcurious discussion of it. It is one of those cases which must be left to
provide for itself. In general, it may be observed, that although no political relation can subsist
between the assenting and dissenting States, yet the moral relations will remain uncancelled. The
claims of justice, both on one side and on the other, will be in force, and must be fulfilled; the
rights of humanity must in all cases be duly and mutually respected; whilst considerations of a
common interest, and, above all, the remembrance of the endearing scenes which are past, and
the anticipation of a speedy triumph over the obstacles to reunion, will, it is hoped, not urge in
vain moderation on one side, and prudence on the other.




                                                                 205
 
                               



Federalist No. 44 - Restrictions on the Authority of the Several
States
Written by James Madison
New York Packet, Friday, January 25, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

A fifth class of provisions in favor of the federal authority consists of the following restrictions
on the authority of the several States:

1. “No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation; grant letters of marque and
reprisal; coin money; emit bills of credit; make any thing but gold and silver a legal tender in
payment of debts; pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of
contracts; or grant any title of nobility.”

The prohibition against treaties, alliances, and confederations makes a part of the existing articles
of Union; and for reasons which need no explanation, is copied into the new Constitution. The
prohibition of letters of marque is another part of the old system, but is somewhat extended in the
new. According to the former, letters of marque could be granted by the States after a declaration
of war; according to the latter, these licenses must be obtained, as well during war as previous to
its declaration, from the government of the United States. This alteration is fully justified by the
advantage of uniformity in all points which relate to foreign powers; and of immediate
responsibility to the nation in all those for whose conduct the nation itself is to be responsible.

The right of coining money, which is here taken from the States, was left in their hands by the
Confederation, as a concurrent right with that of Congress, under an exception in favor of the
exclusive right of Congress to regulate the alloy and value. In this instance, also, the new
provision is an improvement on the old. Whilst the alloy and value depended on the general
authority, a right of coinage in the particular States could have no other effect than to multiply
expensive mints and diversify the forms and weights of the circulating pieces. The latter
inconveniency defeats one purpose for which the power was originally submitted to the federal
head; and as far as the former might prevent an inconvenient remittance of gold and silver to the
central mint for recoinage, the end can be as well attained by local mints established under the
general authority.

The extension of the prohibition to bills of credit must give pleasure to every citizen, in
proportion to his love of justice and his knowledge of the true springs of public prosperity. The
loss which America has sustained since the peace, from the pestilent effects of paper money on
the necessary confidence between man and man, on the necessary confidence in the public
councils, on the industry and morals of the people, and on the character of republican
government, constitutes an enormous debt against the States chargeable with this unadvised


                                                                   206
 
                              


measure, which must long remain unsatisfied; or rather an accumulation of guilt, which can be
expiated no otherwise than by a voluntary sacrifice on the altar of justice, of the power which has
been the instrument of it. In addition to these persuasive considerations, it may be observed, that
the same reasons which show the necessity of denying to the States the power of regulating coin,
prove with equal force that they ought not to be at liberty to substitute a paper medium in the
place of coin. Had every State a right to regulate the value of its coin, there might be as many
different currencies as States, and thus the intercourse among them would be impeded;
retrospective alterations in its value might be made, and thus the citizens of other States be
injured, and animosities be kindled among the States themselves. The subjects of foreign powers
might suffer from the same cause, and hence the Union be discredited and embroiled by the
indiscretion of a single member. No one of these mischiefs is less incident to a power in the
States to emit paper money, than to coin gold or silver. The power to make any thing but gold
and silver a tender in payment of debts, is withdrawn from the States, on the same principle with
that of issuing a paper currency.

Bills of attainder, ex post facto laws, and laws impairing the obligation of contracts, are contrary
to the first principles of the social compact, and to every principle of sound legislation. The two
former are expressly prohibited by the declarations prefixed to some of the State constitutions,
and all of them are prohibited by the spirit and scope of these fundamental charters. Our own
experience has taught us, nevertheless, that additional fences against these dangers ought not to
be omitted. Very properly, therefore, have the convention added this constitutional bulwark in
favor of personal security and private rights; and I am much deceived if they have not, in so
doing, as faithfully consulted the genuine sentiments as the undoubted interests of their
constituents. The sober people of America are weary of the fluctuating policy which has directed
the public councils. They have seen with regret and indignation that sudden changes and
legislative interferences, in cases affecting personal rights, become jobs in the hands of
enterprising and influential speculators, and snares to the more-industrious and less informed
part of the community. They have seen, too, that one legislative interference is but the first link
of a long chain of repetitions, every subsequent interference being naturally produced by the
effects of the preceding. They very rightly infer, therefore, that some thorough reform is wanting,
which will banish speculations on public measures, inspire a general prudence and industry, and
give a regular course to the business of society. The prohibition with respect to titles of nobility
is copied from the articles of Confederation and needs no comment.

2. “No State shall, without the consent of the Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or
exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws, and the net
produce of all duties and imposts laid by any State on imports or exports, shall be for the use of
the treasury of the United States; and all such laws shall be subject to the revision and control of
the Congress. No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty on tonnage, keep
troops or ships of war in time of peace, enter into any agreement or compact with another State,
or with a foreign power, or engage in war unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as
will not admit of delay.”




                                                                 207
 
                               


The restraint on the power of the States over imports and exports is enforced by all the
arguments which prove the necessity of submitting the regulation of trade to the federal councils.
It is needless, therefore, to remark further on this head, than that the manner in which the
restraint is qualified seems well calculated at once to secure to the States a reasonable discretion
in providing for the conveniency of their imports and exports, and to the United States a
reasonable check against the abuse of this discretion. The remaining particulars of this clause fall
within reasonings which are either so obvious, or have been so fully developed, that they may be
passed over without remark.

The sixth and last class consists of the several powers and provisions by which efficacy is given
to all the rest.

1. Of these the first is, the “power to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution in
the government of the United States, or in any department or officer thereof.”

Few parts of the Constitution have been assailed with more intemperance than this; yet on a fair
investigation of it, no part can appear more completely invulnerable. Without the substance of
this power, the whole Constitution would be a dead letter. Those who object to the article,
therefore, as a part of the Constitution, can only mean that the form of the provision is improper.
But have they considered whether a better form could have been substituted?

There are four other possible methods which the Constitution might have taken on this subject.
They might have copied the second article of the existing Confederation, which would have
prohibited the exercise of any power not expressly delegated; they might have attempted a
positive enumeration of the powers comprehended under the general terms “necessary and
proper”; they might have attempted a negative enumeration of them, by specifying the powers
excepted from the general definition; they might have been altogether silent on the subject,
leaving these necessary and proper powers to construction and inference.

Had the convention taken the first method of adopting the second article of Confederation, it is
evident that the new Congress would be continually exposed, as their predecessors have been, to
the alternative of construing the term “expressly” with so much rigor, as to disarm the
government of all real authority whatever, or with so much latitude as to destroy altogether the
force of the restriction. It would be easy to show, if it were necessary, that no important power,
delegated by the articles of Confederation, has been or can be executed by Congress, without
recurring more or less to the doctrine of construction or implication. As the powers delegated
under the new system are more extensive, the government which is to administer it would find
itself still more distressed with the alternative of betraying the public interests by doing nothing,
or of violating the Constitution by exercising powers indispensably necessary and proper, but, at
the same time, not expressly granted.




                                                                  208
 
                               


Had the convention attempted a positive enumeration of the powers necessary and proper for
carrying their other powers into effect, the attempt would have involved a complete digest of
laws on every subject to which the Constitution relates; accommodated too, not only to the
existing state of things, but to all the possible changes which futurity may produce; for in every
new application of a general power, the particular powers, which are the means of attaining the
object of the general power, must always necessarily vary with that object, and be often properly
varied whilst the object remains the same.

Had they attempted to enumerate the particular powers or means not necessary or proper for
carrying the general powers into execution, the task would have been no less chimerical; and
would have been liable to this further objection, that every defect in the enumeration would have
been equivalent to a positive grant of authority. If, to avoid this consequence, they had attempted
a partial enumeration of the exceptions, and described the residue by the general terms, not
necessary or proper, it must have happened that the enumeration would comprehend a few of the
excepted powers only; that these would be such as would be least likely to be assumed or
tolerated, because the enumeration would of course select such as would be least necessary or
proper; and that the unnecessary and improper powers included in the residuum, would be less
forcibly excepted, than if no partial enumeration had been made.

Had the Constitution been silent on this head, there can be no doubt that all the particular powers
requisite as means of executing the general powers would have resulted to the government, by
unavoidable implication. No axiom is more clearly established in law, or in reason, than that
wherever the end is required, the means are authorized; wherever a general power to do a thing is
given, every particular power necessary for doing it is included. Had this last method, therefore,
been pursued by the convention, every objection now urged against their plan would remain in
all its plausibility; and the real inconveniency would be incurred of not removing a pretext which
may be seized on critical occasions for drawing into question the essential powers of the Union.

If it be asked what is to be the consequence, in case the Congress shall misconstrue this part of
the Constitution, and exercise powers not warranted by its true meaning, I answer, the same as if
they should misconstrue or enlarge any other power vested in them; as if the general power had
been reduced to particulars, and any one of these were to be violated; the same, in short, as if the
State legislatures should violate the irrespective constitutional authorities. In the first instance,
the success of the usurpation will depend on the executive and judiciary departments, which are
to expound and give effect to the legislative acts; and in the last resort a remedy must be obtained
from the people who can, by the election of more faithful representatives, annul the acts of the
usurpers. The truth is, that this ultimate redress may be more confided in against unconstitutional
acts of the federal than of the State legislatures, for this plain reason, that as every such act of the
former will be an invasion of the rights of the latter, these will be ever ready to mark the
innovation, to sound the alarm to the people, and to exert their local influence in effecting a
change of federal representatives. There being no such intermediate body between the State
legislatures and the people interested in watching the conduct of the former, violations of the
State constitutions are more likely to remain unnoticed and unredressed.



                                                                    209
 
                               



2. “This Constitution and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof,
and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall be
the supreme law of the land, and the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any thing in
the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.”

The indiscreet zeal of the adversaries to the Constitution has betrayed them into an attack on this
part of it also, without which it would have been evidently and radically defective. To be fully
sensible of this, we need only suppose for a moment that the supremacy of the State constitutions
had been left complete by a saving clause in their favor.

In the first place, as these constitutions invest the State legislatures with absolute sovereignty, in
all cases not excepted by the existing articles of Confederation, all the authorities contained in
the proposed Constitution, so far as they exceed those enumerated in the Confederation, would
have been annulled, and the new Congress would have been reduced to the same impotent
condition with their predecessors.

In the next place, as the constitutions of some of the States do not even expressly and fully
recognize the existing powers of the Confederacy, an express saving of the supremacy of the
former would, in such States, have brought into question every power contained in the proposed
Constitution.

In the third place, as the constitutions of the States differ much from each other, it might happen
that a treaty or national law, of great and equal importance to the States, would interfere with
some and not with other constitutions, and would consequently be valid in some of the States, at
the same time that it would have no effect in others.

In fine, the world would have seen, for the first time, a system of government founded on an
inversion of the fundamental principles of all government; it would have seen the authority of the
whole society every where subordinate to the authority of the parts; it would have seen a
monster, in which the head was under the direction of the members.

3. “The Senators and Representatives, and the members of the several State legislatures, and all
executive and judicial officers, both of the United States and the several States, shall be bound by
oath or affirmation to support this Constitution.”

It has been asked why it was thought necessary, that the State magistracy should be bound to
support the federal Constitution, and unnecessary that a like oath should be imposed on the
officers of the United States, in favor of the State constitutions.

Several reasons might be assigned for the distinction. I content myself with one, which is
obvious and conclusive. The members of the federal government will have no agency in carrying
the State constitutions into effect. The members and officers of the State governments, on the



                                                                   210
 
                               


contrary, will have an essential agency in giving effect to the federal Constitution. The election
of the President and Senate will depend, in all cases, on the legislatures of the several States. And
the election of the House of Representatives will equally depend on the same authority in the
first instance; and will, probably, forever be conducted by the officers, and according to the laws,
of the States.

4. Among the provisions for giving efficacy to the federal powers might be added those which
belong to the executive and judiciary departments: but as these are reserved for particular
examination in another place, I pass them over in this.

We have now reviewed, in detail, all the articles composing the sum or quantity of power
delegated by the proposed Constitution to the federal government, and are brought to this
undeniable conclusion, that no part of the power is unnecessary or improper for accomplishing
the necessary objects of the Union. The question, therefore, whether this amount of power shall
be granted or not, resolves itself into another question, whether or not a government
commensurate to the exigencies of the Union shall be established; or, in other words, whether the
Union itself shall be preserved.




                                                                 211
 
                               



Federalist No. 45 - Alleged Danger From the Powers of the Union to
the State Governments Considered
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Saturday, January 26, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

HAVING shown that no one of the powers transferred to the federal government is unnecessary
or improper, the next question to be considered is, whether the whole mass of them will be
dangerous to the portion of authority left in the several States.

The adversaries to the plan of the convention, instead of considering in the first place what
degree of power was absolutely necessary for the purposes of the federal government, have
exhausted themselves in a secondary inquiry into the possible consequences of the proposed
degree of power to the governments of the particular States. But if the Union, as has been shown,
be essential to the security of the people of America against foreign danger; if it be essential to
their security against contentions and wars among the different States; if it be essential to guard
them against those violent and oppressive factions which embitter the blessings of liberty, and
against those military establishments which must gradually poison its very fountain; if, in a
word, the Union be essential to the happiness of the people of America, is it not preposterous, to
urge as an objection to a government, without which the objects of the Union cannot be attained,
that such a government may derogate from the importance of the governments of the individual
States? Was, then, the American Revolution effected, was the American Confederacy formed,
was the precious blood of thousands spilt, and the hard-earned substance of millions lavished,
not that the people of America should enjoy peace, liberty, and safety, but that the government of
the individual States, that particular municipal establishments, might enjoy a certain extent of
power, and be arrayed with certain dignities and attributes of sovereignty? We have heard of the
impious doctrine in the Old World, that the people were made for kings, not kings for the people.
Is the same doctrine to be revived in the New, in another shape that the solid happiness of the
people is to be sacrificed to the views of political institutions of a different form? It is too early
for politicians to presume on our forgetting that the public good, the real welfare of the great
body of the people, is the supreme object to be pursued; and that no form of government
whatever has any other value than as it may be fitted for the attainment of this object. Were the
plan of the convention adverse to the public happiness, my voice would be, Reject the plan.
Were the Union itself inconsistent with the public happiness, it would be, Abolish the Union. In
like manner, as far as the sovereignty of the States cannot be reconciled to the happiness of the
people, the voice of every good citizen must be, Let the former be sacrificed to the latter. How
far the sacrifice is necessary, has been shown. How far the unsacrificed residue will be
endangered, is the question before us.




                                                                  212
 
                              


Several important considerations have been touched in the course of these papers, which
discountenance the supposition that the operation of the federal government will by degrees
prove fatal to the State governments. The more I revolve the subject, the more fully I am
persuaded that the balance is much more likely to be disturbed by the preponderancy of the last
than of the first scale.

We have seen, in all the examples of ancient and modern confederacies, the strongest tendency
continually betraying itself in the members, to despoil the general government of its authorities,
with a very ineffectual capacity in the latter to defend itself against the encroachments. Although,
in most of these examples, the system has been so dissimilar from that under consideration as
greatly to weaken any inference concerning the latter from the fate of the former, yet, as the
States will retain, under the proposed Constitution, a very extensive portion of active
sovereignty, the inference ought not to be wholly disregarded. In the Achaean league it is
probable that the federal head had a degree and species of power, which gave it a considerable
likeness to the government framed by the convention. The Lycian Confederacy, as far as its
principles and form are transmitted, must have borne a still greater analogy to it. Yet history does
not inform us that either of them ever degenerated, or tended to degenerate, into one consolidated
government. On the contrary, we know that the ruin of one of them proceeded from the
incapacity of the federal authority to prevent the dissensions, and finally the disunion, of the
subordinate authorities. These cases are the more worthy of our attention, as the external causes
by which the component parts were pressed together were much more numerous and powerful
than in our case; and consequently less powerful ligaments within would be sufficient to bind the
members to the head, and to each other.

In the feudal system, we have seen a similar propensity exemplified. Notwithstanding the want
of proper sympathy in every instance between the local sovereigns and the people, and the
sympathy in some instances between the general sovereign and the latter, it usually happened
that the local sovereigns prevailed in the rivalship for encroachments. Had no external dangers
enforced internal harmony and subordination, and particularly, had the local sovereigns
possessed the affections of the people, the great kingdoms in Europe would at this time consist of
as many independent princes as there were formerly feudatory barons.

The State governments will have the advantage of the Federal government, whether we compare
them in respect to the immediate dependence of the one on the other; to the weight of personal
influence which each side will possess; to the powers respectively vested in them; to the
predilection and probable support of the people; to the disposition and faculty of resisting and
frustrating the measures of each other.

The State governments may be regarded as constituent and essential parts of the federal
government; whilst the latter is nowise essential to the operation or organization of the former.
Without the intervention of the State legislatures, the President of the United States cannot be
elected at all. They must in all cases have a great share in his appointment, and will, perhaps, in
most cases, of themselves determine it. The Senate will be elected absolutely and exclusively by



                                                                213
 
                               


the State legislatures. Even the House of Representatives, though drawn immediately from the
people, will be chosen very much under the influence of that class of men, whose influence over
the people obtains for themselves an election into the State legislatures. Thus, each of the
principal branches of the federal government will owe its existence more or less to the favor of
the State governments, and must consequently feel a dependence, which is much more likely to
beget a disposition too obsequious than too overbearing towards them. On the other side, the
component parts of the State governments will in no instance be indebted for their appointment
to the direct agency of the federal government, and very little, if at all, to the local influence of
its members.

The number of individuals employed under the Constitution of the United States will be much
smaller than the number employed under the particular States. There will consequently be less of
personal influence on the side of the former than of the latter. The members of the legislative,
executive, and judiciary departments of thirteen and more States, the justices of peace, officers of
militia, ministerial officers of justice, with all the county, corporation, and town officers, for
three millions and more of people, intermixed, and having particular acquaintance with every
class and circle of people, must exceed, beyond all proportion, both in number and influence,
those of every description who will be employed in the administration of the federal system.
Compare the members of the three great departments of the thirteen States, excluding from the
judiciary department the justices of peace, with the members of the corresponding departments
of the single government of the Union; compare the militia officers of three millions of people
with the military and marine officers of any establishment which is within the compass of
probability, or, I may add, of possibility, and in this view alone, we may pronounce the
advantage of the States to be decisive. If the federal government is to have collectors of revenue,
the State governments will have theirs also. And as those of the former will be principally on the
seacoast, and not very numerous, whilst those of the latter will be spread over the face of the
country, and will be very numerous, the advantage in this view also lies on the same side. It is
true, that the Confederacy is to possess, and may exercise, the power of collecting internal as
well as external taxes throughout the States; but it is probable that this power will not be resorted
to, except for supplemental purposes of revenue; that an option will then be given to the States to
supply their quotas by previous collections of their own; and that the eventual collection, under
the immediate authority of the Union, will generally be made by the officers, and according to
the rules, appointed by the several States. Indeed it is extremely probable, that in other instances,
particularly in the organization of the judicial power, the officers of the States will be clothed
with the correspondent authority of the Union. Should it happen, however, that separate
collectors of internal revenue should be appointed under the federal government, the influence of
the whole number would not bear a comparison with that of the multitude of State officers in the
opposite scale. Within every district to which a federal collector would be allotted, there would
not be less than thirty or forty, or even more, officers of different descriptions, and many of them
persons of character and weight, whose influence would lie on the side of the State.

The powers delegated by the proposed Constitution to the federal government, are few and
defined. Those which are to remain in the State governments are numerous and indefinite. The



                                                                  214
 
                              


former will be exercised principally on external objects, as war, peace, negotiation, and foreign
commerce; with which last the power of taxation will, for the most part, be connected. The
powers reserved to the several States will extend to all the objects which, in the ordinary course
of affairs, concern the lives, liberties, and properties of the people, and the internal order,
improvement, and prosperity of the State.

The operations of the federal government will be most extensive and important in times of war
and danger; those of the State governments, in times of peace and security. As the former periods
will probably bear a small proportion to the latter, the State governments will here enjoy another
advantage over the federal government. The more adequate, indeed, the federal powers may be
rendered to the national defense, the less frequent will be those scenes of danger which might
favor their ascendancy over the governments of the particular States.

If the new Constitution be examined with accuracy and candor, it will be found that the change
which it proposes consists much less in the addition of NEW POWERS to the Union, than in the
invigoration of its ORIGINAL POWERS. The regulation of commerce, it is true, is a new power;
but that seems to be an addition which few oppose, and from which no apprehensions are
entertained. The powers relating to war and peace, armies and fleets, treaties and finance, with
the other more considerable powers, are all vested in the existing Congress by the articles of
Confederation. The proposed change does not enlarge these powers; it only substitutes a more
effectual mode of administering them. The change relating to taxation may be regarded as the
most important; and yet the present Congress have as complete authority to REQUIRE of the
States indefinite supplies of money for the common defense and general welfare, as the future
Congress will have to require them of individual citizens; and the latter will be no more bound
than the States themselves have been, to pay the quotas respectively taxed on them. Had the
States complied punctually with the articles of Confederation, or could their compliance have
been enforced by as peaceable means as may be used with success towards single persons, our
past experience is very far from countenancing an opinion, that the State governments would
have lost their constitutional powers, and have gradually undergone an entire consolidation. To
maintain that such an event would have ensued, would be to say at once, that the existence of the
State governments is incompatible with any system whatever that accomplishes the essental
purposes of the Union.




                                                                215
 
                              



Federalist No. 46 - The Influence of the State and Federal
Governments Compared
Written by James Madison
New York Packet, Tuesday, January 29, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

RESUMING the subject of the last paper, I proceed to inquire whether the federal government or
the State governments will have the advantage with regard to the predilection and support of the
people. Notwithstanding the different modes in which they are appointed, we must consider both
of them as substantially dependent on the great body of the citizens of the United States. I
assume this position here as it respects the first, reserving the proofs for another place. The
federal and State governments are in fact but different agents and trustees of the people,
constituted with different powers, and designed for different purposes. The adversaries of the
Constitution seem to have lost sight of the people altogether in their reasonings on this subject;
and to have viewed these different establishments, not only as mutual rivals and enemies, but as
uncontrolled by any common superior in their efforts to usurp the authorities of each other.
These gentlemen must here be reminded of their error. They must be told that the ultimate
authority, wherever the derivative may be found, resides in the people alone, and that it will not
depend merely on the comparative ambition or address of the different governments, whether
either, or which of them, will be able to enlarge its sphere of jurisdiction at the expense of the
other. Truth, no less than decency, requires that the event in every case should be supposed to
depend on the sentiments and sanction of their common constituents.

Many considerations, besides those suggested on a former occasion, seem to place it beyond
doubt that the first and most natural attachment of the people will be to the governments of their
respective States. Into the administration of these a greater number of individuals will expect to
rise. From the gift of these a greater number of offices and emoluments will flow. By the
superintending care of these, all the more domestic and personal interests of the people will be
regulated and provided for. With the affairs of these, the people will be more familiarly and
minutely conversant. And with the members of these, will a greater proportion of the people
have the ties of personal acquaintance and friendship, and of family and party attachments; on
the side of these, therefore, the popular bias may well be expected most strongly to incline.

Experience speaks the same language in this case. The federal administration, though hitherto
very defective in comparison with what may be hoped under a better system, had, during the
war, and particularly whilst the independent fund of paper emissions was in credit, an activity
and importance as great as it can well have in any future circumstances whatever. It was
engaged, too, in a course of measures which had for their object the protection of everything that
was dear, and the acquisition of everything that could be desirable to the people at large. It was,
nevertheless, invariably found, after the transient enthusiasm for the early Congresses was over,


                                                                216
 
                               


that the attention and attachment of the people were turned anew to their own particular
governments; that the federal council was at no time the idol of popular favor; and that
opposition to proposed enlargements of its powers and importance was the side usually taken by
the men who wished to build their political consequence on the prepossessions of their fellow-
citizens.

If, therefore, as has been elsewhere remarked, the people should in future become more partial to
the federal than to the State governments, the change can only result from such manifest and
irresistible proofs of a better administration, as will overcome all their antecedent propensities.
And in that case, the people ought not surely to be precluded from giving most of their
confidence where they may discover it to be most due; but even in that case the State
governments could have little to apprehend, because it is only within a certain sphere that the
federal power can, in the nature of things, be advantageously administered.

The remaining points on which I propose to compare the federal and State governments, are the
disposition and the faculty they may respectively possess, to resist and frustrate the measures of
each other.

It has been already proved that the members of the federal will be more dependent on the
members of the State governments, than the latter will be on the former. It has appeared also, that
the prepossessions of the people, on whom both will depend, will be more on the side of the
State governments, than of the federal government. So far as the disposition of each towards the
other may be influenced by these causes, the State governments must clearly have the advantage.
But in a distinct and very important point of view, the advantage will lie on the same side. The
prepossessions, which the members themselves will carry into the federal government, will
generally be favorable to the States; whilst it will rarely happen, that the members of the State
governments will carry into the public councils a bias in favor of the general government. A
local spirit will infallibly prevail much more in the members of Congress, than a national spirit
will prevail in the legislatures of the particular States. Every one knows that a great proportion of
the errors committed by the State legislatures proceeds from the disposition of the members to
sacrifice the comprehensive and permanent interest of the State, to the particular and separate
views of the counties or districts in which they reside. And if they do not sufficiently enlarge
their policy to embrace the collective welfare of their particular State, how can it be imagined
that they will make the aggregate prosperity of the Union, and the dignity and respectability of
its government, the objects of their affections and consultations? For the same reason that the
members of the State legislatures will be unlikely to attach themselves sufficiently to national
objects, the members of the federal legislature will be likely to attach themselves too much to
local objects. The States will be to the latter what counties and towns are to the former. Measures
will too often be decided according to their probable effect, not on the national prosperity and
happiness, but on the prejudices, interests, and pursuits of the governments and people of the
individual States. What is the spirit that has in general characterized the proceedings of
Congress? A perusal of their journals, as well as the candid acknowledgments of such as have
had a seat in that assembly, will inform us, that the members have but too frequently displayed



                                                                 217
 
                               


the character, rather of partisans of their respective States, than of impartial guardians of a
common interest; that where on one occasion improper sacrifices have been made of local
considerations, to the aggrandizement of the federal government, the great interests of the nation
have suffered on a hundred, from an undue attention to the local prejudices, interests, and views
of the particular States. I mean not by these reflections to insinuate, that the new federal
government will not embrace a more enlarged plan of policy than the existing government may
have pursued; much less, that its views will be as confined as those of the State legislatures; but
only that it will partake sufficiently of the spirit of both, to be disinclined to invade the rights of
the individual States, or the preorgatives of their governments. The motives on the part of the
State governments, to augment their prerogatives by defalcations from the federal government,
will be overruled by no reciprocal predispositions in the members.

Were it admitted, however, that the Federal government may feel an equal disposition with the
State governments to extend its power beyond the due limits, the latter would still have the
advantage in the means of defeating such encroachments. If an act of a particular State, though
unfriendly to the national government, be generally popular in that State and should not too
grossly violate the oaths of the State officers, it is executed immediately and, of course, by
means on the spot and depending on the State alone. The opposition of the federal government,
or the interposition of federal officers, would but inflame the zeal of all parties on the side of the
State, and the evil could not be prevented or repaired, if at all, without the employment of means
which must always be resorted to with reluctance and difficulty. On the other hand, should an
unwarrantable measure of the federal government be unpopular in particular States, which would
seldom fail to be the case, or even a warrantable measure be so, which may sometimes be the
case, the means of opposition to it are powerful and at hand. The disquietude of the people; their
repugnance and, perhaps, refusal to co-operate with the officers of the Union; the frowns of the
executive magistracy of the State; the embarrassments created by legislative devices, which
would often be added on such occasions, would oppose, in any State, difficulties not to be
despised; would form, in a large State, very serious impediments; and where the sentiments of
several adjoining States happened to be in unison, would present obstructions which the federal
government would hardly be willing to encounter.

But ambitious encroachments of the federal government, on the authority of the State
governments, would not excite the opposition of a single State, or of a few States only. They
would be signals of general alarm. Every government would espouse the common cause. A
correspondence would be opened. Plans of resistance would be concerted. One spirit would
animate and conduct the whole. The same combinations, in short, would result from an
apprehension of the federal, as was produced by the dread of a foreign, yoke; and unless the
projected innovations should be voluntarily renounced, the same appeal to a trial of force would
be made in the one case as was made in the other. But what degree of madness could ever drive
the federal government to such an extremity. In the contest with Great Britain, one part of the
empire was employed against the other. The more numerous part invaded the rights of the less
numerous part. The attempt was unjust and unwise; but it was not in speculation absolutely
chimerical. But what would be the contest in the case we are supposing? Who would be the



                                                                    218
 
                               


parties? A few representatives of the people would be opposed to the people themselves; or
rather one set of representatives would be contending against thirteen sets of representatives,
with the whole body of their common constituents on the side of the latter.

The only refuge left for those who prophesy the downfall of the State governments is the
visionary supposition that the federal government may previously accumulate a military force for
the projects of ambition. The reasonings contained in these papers must have been employed to
little purpose indeed, if it could be necessary now to disprove the reality of this danger. That the
people and the States should, for a sufficient period of time, elect an uninterupted succession of
men ready to betray both; that the traitors should, throughout this period, uniformly and
systematically pursue some fixed plan for the extension of the military establishment; that the
governments and the people of the States should silently and patiently behold the gathering
storm, and continue to supply the materials, until it should be prepared to burst on their own
heads, must appear to every one more like the incoherent dreams of a delirious jealousy, or the
misjudged exaggerations of a counterfeit zeal, than like the sober apprehensions of genuine
patriotism. Extravagant as the supposition is, let it however be made. Let a regular army, fully
equal to the resources of the country, be formed; and let it be entirely at the devotion of the
federal government; still it would not be going too far to say, that the State governments, with
the people on their side, would be able to repel the danger. The highest number to which,
according to the best computation, a standing army can be carried in any country, does not
exceed one hundredth part of the whole number of souls; or one twenty-fifth part of the number
able to bear arms. This proportion would not yield, in the United States, an army of more than
twenty-five or thirty thousand men. To these would be opposed a militia amounting to near half a
million of citizens with arms in their hands, officered by men chosen from among themselves,
fighting for their common liberties, and united and conducted by governments possessing their
affections and confidence. It may well be doubted, whether a militia thus circumstanced could
ever be conquered by such a proportion of regular troops. Those who are best acquainted with
the last successful resistance of this country against the British arms, will be most inclined to
deny the possibility of it. Besides the advantage of being armed, which the Americans possess
over the people of almost every other nation, the existence of subordinate governments, to which
the people are attached, and by which the militia officers are appointed, forms a barrier against
the enterprises of ambition, more insurmountable than any which a simple government of any
form can admit of. Notwithstanding the military establishments in the several kingdoms of
Europe, which are carried as far as the public resources will bear, the governments are afraid to
trust the people with arms. And it is not certain, that with this aid alone they would not be able to
shake off their yokes. But were the people to possess the additional advantages of local
governments chosen by themselves, who could collect the national will and direct the national
force, and of officers appointed out of the militia, by these governments, and attached both to
them and to the militia, it may be affirmed with the greatest assurance, that the throne of every
tyranny in Europe would be speedily overturned in spite of the legions which surround it. Let us
not insult the free and gallant citizens of America with the suspicion, that they would be less able
to defend the rights of which they would be in actual possession, than the debased subjects of
arbitrary power would be to rescue theirs from the hands of their oppressors. Let us rather no



                                                                 219
 
                               


longer insult them with the supposition that they can ever reduce themselves to the necessity of
making the experiment, by a blind and tame submission to the long train of insidious measures
which must precede and produce it.

The argument under the present head may be put into a very concise form, which appears
altogether conclusive. Either the mode in which the federal government is to be constructed will
render it sufficiently dependent on the people, or it will not. On the first supposition, it will be
restrained by that dependence from forming schemes obnoxious to their constituents. On the
other supposition, it will not possess the confidence of the people, and its schemes of usurpation
will be easily defeated by the State governments, who will be supported by the people.

On summing up the considerations stated in this and the last paper, they seem to amount to the
most convincing evidence, that the powers proposed to be lodged in the federal government are
as little formidable to those reserved to the individual States, as they are indispensably necessary
to accomplish the purposes of the Union; and that all those alarms which have been sounded, of a
meditated and consequential annihilation of the State governments, must, on the most favorable
interpretation, be ascribed to the chimerical fears of the authors of them.




                                                                  220
 
                               



Federalist No. 47 - The Particular Structure of the New Government
and the Distribution of Power Among Its Different Parts

Written by James Madison

New York Packet, Wednesday, January 30, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

HAVING reviewed the general form of the proposed government and the general mass of power
allotted to it, I proceed to examine the particular structure of this government, and the
distribution of this mass of power among its constituent parts.

One of the principal objections inculcated by the more respectable adversaries to the
Constitution, is its supposed violation of the political maxim, that the legislative, executive, and
judiciary departments ought to be separate and distinct. In the structure of the federal
government, no regard, it is said, seems to have been paid to this essential precaution in favor of
liberty. The several departments of power are distributed and blended in such a manner as at
once to destroy all symmetry and beauty of form, and to expose some of the essential parts of the
edifice to the danger of being crushed by the disproportionate weight of other parts.

No political truth is certainly of greater intrinsic value, or is stamped with the authority of more
enlightened patrons of liberty, than that on which the objection is founded. The accumulation of
all powers, legislative, executive, and judiciary, in the same hands, whether of one, a few, or
many, and whether hereditary, self-appointed, or elective, may justly be pronounced the very
definition of tyranny. Were the federal Constitution, therefore, really chargeable with the
accumulation of power, or with a mixture of powers, having a dangerous tendency to such an
accumulation, no further arguments would be necessary to inspire a universal reprobation of the
system. I persuade myself, however, that it will be made apparent to every one, that the charge
cannot be supported, and that the maxim on which it relies has been totally misconceived and
misapplied. In order to form correct ideas on this important subject, it will be proper to
investigate the sense in which the preservation of liberty requires that the three great departments
of power should be separate and distinct.

The oracle who is always consulted and cited on this subject is the celebrated Montesquieu. If he
be not the author of this invaluable precept in the science of politics, he has the merit at least of
displaying and recommending it most effectually to the attention of mankind. Let us endeavor, in
the first place, to ascertain his meaning on this point.

The British Constitution was to Montesquieu what Homer has been to the didactic writers on
epic poetry. As the latter have considered the work of the immortal bard as the perfect model



                                                                  221
 
                              


from which the principles and rules of the epic art were to be drawn, and by which all similar
works were to be judged, so this great political critic appears to have viewed the Constitution of
England as the standard, or to use his own expression, as the mirror of political liberty; and to
have delivered, in the form of elementary truths, the several characteristic principles of that
particular system. That we may be sure, then, not to mistake his meaning in this case, let us recur
to the source from which the maxim was drawn.

On the slightest view of the British Constitution, we must perceive that the legislative, executive,
and judiciary departments are by no means totally separate and distinct from each other. The
executive magistrate forms an integral part of the legislative authority. He alone has the
prerogative of making treaties with foreign sovereigns, which, when made, have, under certain
limitations, the force of legislative acts. All the members of the judiciary department are
appointed by him, can be removed by him on the address of the two Houses of Parliament, and
form, when he pleases to consult them, one of his constitutional councils. One branch of the
legislative department forms also a great constitutional council to the executive chief, as, on
another hand, it is the sole depositary of judicial power in cases of impeachment, and is invested
with the supreme appellate jurisdiction in all other cases. The judges, again, are so far connected
with the legislative department as often to attend and participate in its deliberations, though not
admitted to a legislative vote.

From these facts, by which Montesquieu was guided, it may clearly be inferred that, in saying
“There can be no liberty where the legislative and executive powers are united in the same
person, or body of magistrates,” or, “if the power of judging be not separated from the legislative
and executive powers,” he did not mean that these departments ought to have no partial agency
in, or no control over, the acts of each other. His meaning, as his own words import, and still
more conclusively as illustrated by the example in his eye, can amount to no more than this, that
where the whole power of one department is exercised by the same hands which possess the
whole power of another department, the fundamental principles of a free constitution are
subverted. This would have been the case in the constitution examined by him, if the king, who
is the sole executive magistrate, had possessed also the complete legislative power, or the
supreme administration of justice; or if the entire legislative body had possessed the supreme
judiciary, or the supreme executive authority. This, however, is not among the vices of that
constitution. The magistrate in whom the whole executive power resides cannot of himself make
a law, though he can put a negative on every law; nor administer justice in person, though he has
the appointment of those who do administer it. The judges can exercise no executive prerogative,
though they are shoots from the executive stock; nor any legislative function, though they may
be advised with by the legislative councils. The entire legislature can perform no judiciary act,
though by the joint act of two of its branches the judges may be removed from their offices, and
though one of its branches is possessed of the judicial power in the last resort. The entire
legislature, again, can exercise no executive prerogative, though one of its branches constitutes
the supreme executive magistracy, and another, on the impeachment of a third, can try and
condemn all the subordinate officers in the executive department.




                                                                 222
 
                               


The reasons on which Montesquieu grounds his maxim are a further demonstration of his
meaning. “When the legislative and executive powers are united in the same person or body,”
says he, “there can be no liberty, because apprehensions may arise lest the same monarch or
senate should enact tyrannical laws to execute them in a tyrannical manner.” Again: “Were the
power of judging joined with the legislative, the life and liberty of the subject would be exposed
to arbitrary control, for the judge would then be the legislator. Were it joined to the executive
power, the judge might behave with all the violence of an oppressor.” Some of these reasons are
more fully explained in other passages; but briefly stated as they are here, they sufficiently
establish the meaning which we have put on this celebrated maxim of this celebrated author.

If we look into the constitutions of the several States, we find that, notwithstanding the
emphatical and, in some instances, the unqualified terms in which this axiom has been laid down,
there is not a single instance in which the several departments of power have been kept
absolutely separate and distinct. New Hampshire, whose constitution was the last formed, seems
to have been fully aware of the impossibility and inexpediency of avoiding any mixture whatever
of these departments, and has qualified the doctrine by declaring “that the legislative, executive,
and judiciary powers ought to be kept as separate from, and independent of, each other as the
nature of a free government will admit; or as is consistent with that chain of connection that
binds the whole fabric of the constitution in one indissoluble bond of unity and amity.” Her
constitution accordingly mixes these departments in several respects. The Senate, which is a
branch of the legislative department, is also a judicial tribunal for the trial of impeachments. The
President, who is the head of the executive department, is the presiding member also of the
Senate; and, besides an equal vote in all cases, has a casting vote in case of a tie. The executive
head is himself eventually elective every year by the legislative department, and his council is
every year chosen by and from the members of the same department. Several of the officers of
state are also appointed by the legislature. And the members of the judiciary department are
appointed by the executive department.

The constitution of Massachusetts has observed a sufficient though less pointed caution, in
expressing this fundamental article of liberty. It declares “that the legislative department shall
never exercise the executive and judicial powers, or either of them; the executive shall never
exercise the legislative and judicial powers, or either of them; the judicial shall never exercise the
legislative and executive powers, or either of them.” This declaration corresponds precisely with
the doctrine of Montesquieu, as it has been explained, and is not in a single point violated by the
plan of the convention. It goes no farther than to prohibit any one of the entire departments from
exercising the powers of another department. In the very Constitution to which it is prefixed, a
partial mixture of powers has been admitted. The executive magistrate has a qualified negative
on the legislative body, and the Senate, which is a part of the legislature, is a court of
impeachment for members both of the executive and judiciary departments. The members of the
judiciary department, again, are appointable by the executive department, and removable by the
same authority on the address of the two legislative branches. Lastly, a number of the officers of
government are annually appointed by the legislative department. As the appointment to offices,




                                                                  223
 
                               


particularly executive offices, is in its nature an executive function, the compilers of the
Constitution have, in this last point at least, violated the rule established by themselves.

I pass over the constitutions of Rhode Island and Connecticut, because they were formed prior to
the Revolution, and even before the principle under examination had become an object of
political attention.

The constitution of New York contains no declaration on this subject; but appears very clearly to
have been framed with an eye to the danger of improperly blending the different departments. It
gives, nevertheless, to the executive magistrate, a partial control over the legislative department;
and, what is more, gives a like control to the judiciary department; and even blends the executive
and judiciary departments in the exercise of this control. In its council of appointment members
of the legislative are associated with the executive authority, in the appointment of officers, both
executive and judiciary. And its court for the trial of impeachments and correction of errors is to
consist of one branch of the legislature and the principal members of the judiciary department.

The constitution of New Jersey has blended the different powers of government more than any of
the preceding. The governor, who is the executive magistrate, is appointed by the legislature; is
chancellor and ordinary, or surrogate of the State; is a member of the Supreme Court of Appeals,
and president, with a casting vote, of one of the legislative branches. The same legislative branch
acts again as executive council of the governor, and with him constitutes the Court of Appeals.
The members of the judiciary department are appointed by the legislative department and
removable by one branch of it, on the impeachment of the other.

According to the constitution of Pennsylvania, the president, who is the head of the executive
department, is annually elected by a vote in which the legislative department predominates. In
conjunction with an executive council, he appoints the members of the judiciary department, and
forms a court of impeachment for trial of all officers, judiciary as well as executive. The judges
of the Supreme Court and justices of the peace seem also to be removable by the legislature; and
the executive power of pardoning in certain cases, to be referred to the same department. The
members of the executive counoil are made EX-OFFICIO justices of peace throughout the State.

In Delaware, the chief executive magistrate is annually elected by the legislative department. The
speakers of the two legislative branches are vice-presidents in the executive department. The
executive chief, with six others, appointed, three by each of the legislative branches constitutes
the Supreme Court of Appeals; he is joined with the legislative department in the appointment of
the other judges. Throughout the States, it appears that the members of the legislature may at the
same time be justices of the peace; in this State, the members of one branch of it are EX-
OFFICIO justices of the peace; as are also the members of the executive council. The principal
officers of the executive department are appointed by the legislative; and one branch of the latter
forms a court of impeachments. All officers may be removed on address of the legislature.




                                                                     224
 
                              


Maryland has adopted the maxim in the most unqualified terms; declaring that the legislative,
executive, and judicial powers of government ought to be forever separate and distinct from each
other. Her constitution, notwithstanding, makes the executive magistrate appointable by the
legislative department; and the members of the judiciary by the executive department.

The language of Virginia is still more pointed on this subject. Her constitution declares, “that the
legislative, executive, and judiciary departments shall be separate and distinct; so that neither
exercise the powers properly belonging to the other; nor shall any person exercise the powers of
more than one of them at the same time, except that the justices of county courts shall be eligible
to either House of Assembly.” Yet we find not only this express exception, with respect to the
members of the irferior courts, but that the chief magistrate, with his executive council, are
appointable by the legislature; that two members of the latter are triennially displaced at the
pleasure of the legislature; and that all the principal offices, both executive and judiciary, are
filled by the same department. The executive prerogative of pardon, also, is in one case vested in
the legislative department.

The constitution of North Carolina, which declares “that the legislative, executive, and supreme
judicial powers of government ought to be forever separate and distinct from each other,” refers,
at the same time, to the legislative department, the appointment not only of the executive chief,
but all the principal officers within both that and the judiciary department.

In South Carolina, the constitution makes the executive magistracy eligible by the legislative
department. It gives to the latter, also, the appointment of the members of the judiciary
department, including even justices of the peace and sheriffs; and the appointment of officers in
the executive department, down to captains in the army and navy of the State.

In the constitution of Georgia, where it is declared “that the legislative, executive, and judiciary
departments shall be separate and distinct, so that neither exercise the powers properly belonging
to the other,” we find that the executive department is to be filled by appointments of the
legislature; and the executive prerogative of pardon to be finally exercised by the same authority.
Even justices of the peace are to be appointed by the legislature.

In citing these cases, in which the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments have not been
kept totally separate and distinct, I wish not to be regarded as an advocate for the particular
organizations of the several State governments. I am fully aware that among the many excellent
principles which they exemplify, they carry strong marks of the haste, and still stronger of the
inexperience, under which they were framed. It is but too obvious that in some instances the
fundamental principle under consideration has been violated by too great a mixture, and even an
actual consolidation, of the different powers; and that in no instance has a competent provision
been made for maintaining in practice the separation delineated on paper. What I have wished to
evince is, that the charge brought against the proposed Constitution, of violating the sacred
maxim of free government, is warranted neither by the real meaning annexed to that maxim by




                                                                 225
 
                              


its author, nor by the sense in which it has hitherto been understood in America. This interesting
subject will be resumed in the ensuing paper.




                                                                226
 
                               



Federalist No. 48 - These Departments Should Not Be So Far
Separated as to Have No Constitutional Control Over Each Other
Written by James Madison
New York Packet, Friday, February 1, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

IT WAS shown in the last paper that the political apothegm there examined does not require that
the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments should be wholly unconnected with each
other. I shall undertake, in the next place, to show that unless these departments be so far
connected and blended as to give to each a constitutional control over the others, the degree of
separation which the maxim requires, as essential to a free government, can never in practice be
duly maintained.

It is agreed on all sides, that the powers properly belonging to one of the departments ought not
to be directly and completely administered by either of the other departments. It is equally
evident, that none of them ought to possess, directly or indirectly, an overruling influence over
the others, in the administration of their respective powers. It will not be denied, that power is of
an encroaching nature, and that it ought to be effectually restrained from passing the limits
assigned to it. After discriminating, therefore, in theory, the several classes of power, as they
may in their nature be legislative, executive, or judiciary, the next and most difficult task is to
provide some practical security for each, against the invasion of the others. What this security
ought to be, is the great problem to be solved.

Will it be sufficient to mark, with precision, the boundaries of these departments, in the
constitution of the government, and to trust to these parchment barriers against the encroaching
spirit of power? This is the security which appears to have been principally relied on by the
compilers of most of the American constitutions. But experience assures us, that the efficacy of
the provision has been greatly overrated; and that some more adequate defense is indispensably
necessary for the more feeble, against the more powerful, members of the government. The
legislative department is everywhere extending the sphere of its activity, and drawing all power
into its impetuous vortex.

The founders of our republics have so much merit for the wisdom which they have displayed,
that no task can be less pleasing than that of pointing out the errors into which they have fallen.
A respect for truth, however, obliges us to remark, that they seem never for a moment to have
turned their eyes from the danger to liberty from the overgrown and all-grasping prerogative of
an hereditary magistrate, supported and fortified by an hereditary branch of the legislative
authority. They seem never to have recollected the danger from legislative usurpations, which,
by assembling all power in the same hands, must lead to the same tyranny as is threatened by
executive usurpations.


                                                                  227
 
                              



In a government where numerous and extensive prerogatives are placed in the hands of an
hereditary monarch, the executive department is very justly regarded as the source of danger, and
watched with all the jealousy which a zeal for liberty ought to inspire. In a democracy, where a
multitude of people exercise in person the legislative functions, and are continually exposed, by
their incapacity for regular deliberation and concerted measures, to the ambitious intrigues of
their executive magistrates, tyranny may well be apprehended, on some favorable emergency, to
start up in the same quarter. But in a representative republic, where the executive magistracy is
carefully limited; both in the extent and the duration of its power; and where the legislative
power is exercised by an assembly, which is inspired, by a supposed influence over the people,
with an intrepid confidence in its own strength; which is sufficiently numerous to feel all the
passions which actuate a multitude, yet not so numerous as to be incapable of pursuing the
objects of its passions, by means which reason prescribes; it is against the enterprising ambition
of this department that the people ought to indulge all their jealousy and exhaust all their
precautions.

The legislative department derives a superiority in our governments from other circumstances.
Its constitutional powers being at once more extensive, and less susceptible of precise limits, it
can, with the greater facility, mask, under complicated and indirect measures, the encroachments
which it makes on the co-ordinate departments. It is not unfrequently a question of real nicety in
legislative bodies, whether the operation of a particular measure will, or will not, extend beyond
the legislative sphere. On the other side, the executive power being restrained within a narrower
compass, and being more simple in its nature, and the judiciary being described by landmarks
still less uncertain, projects of usurpation by either of these departments would immediately
betray and defeat themselves. Nor is this all: as the legislative department alone has access to the
pockets of the people, and has in some constitutions full discretion, and in all a prevailing
influence, over the pecuniary rewards of those who fill the other departments, a dependence is
thus created in the latter, which gives still greater facility to encroachments of the former.

I have appealed to our own experience for the truth of what I advance on this subject. Were it
necessary to verify this experience by particular proofs, they might be multiplied without end. I
might find a witness in every citizen who has shared in, or been attentive to, the course of public
administrations. I might collect vouchers in abundance from the records and archives of every
State in the Union. But as a more concise, and at the same time equally satisfactory, evidence, I
will refer to the example of two States, attested by two unexceptionable authorities.

The first example is that of Virginia, a State which, as we have seen, has expressly declared in its
constitution, that the three great departments ought not to be intermixed. The authority in support
of it is Mr. Jefferson, who, besides his other advantages for remarking the operation of the
government, was himself the chief magistrate of it. In order to convey fully the ideas with which
his experience had impressed him on this subject, it will be necessary to quote a passage of some
length from his very interesting Notes on the State of Virginia, p. 195. “All the powers of
government, legislative, executive, and judiciary, result to the legislative body. The



                                                                 228
 
                               


concentrating these in the same hands, is precisely the definition of despotic government. It will
be no alleviation, that these powers will be exercised by a plurality of hands, and not by a single
one. One hundred and seventy-three despots would surely be as oppressive as one. Let those who
doubt it, turn their eyes on the republic of Venice. As little will it avail us, that they are chosen
by ourselves. An elective despotism was not the government we fought for; but one which
should not only be founded on free principles, but in which the powers of government should be
so divided and balanced among several bodies of magistracy, as that no one could transcend their
legal limits, without being effectually checked and restrained by the others. For this reason, that
convention which passed the ordinance of government, laid its foundation on this basis, that the
legislative, executive, and judiciary departments should be separate and distinct, so that no
person should exercise the powers of more than one of them at the same time. But no barrier was
provided between these several powers. The judiciary and the executive members were left
dependent on the legislative for their subsistence in office, and some of them for their
continuance in it. If, therefore, the legislature assumes executive and judiciary powers, no
opposition is likely to be made; nor, if made, can be effectual; because in that case they may put
their proceedings into the form of acts of Assembly, which will render them obligatory on the
other branches. They have accordingly, in many instances, decided rights which should have
been left to judiciary controversy, and the direction of the executive, during the whole time of
their session, is becoming habitual and familiar.”

The other State which I shall take for an example is Pennsylvania; and the other authority, the
Council of Censors, which assembled in the years 1783 and 1784. A part of the duty of this
body, as marked out by the constitution, was “to inquire whether the constitution had been
preserved inviolate in every part; and whether the legislative and executive branches of
government had performed their duty as guardians of the people, or assumed to themselves, or
exercised, other or greater powers than they are entitled to by the constitution. ” In the execution
of this trust, the council were necessarily led to a comparison of both the legislative and
executive proceedings, with the constitutional powers of these departments; and from the facts
enumerated, and to the truth of most of which both sides in the council subscribed, it appears that
the constitution had been flagrantly violated by the legislature in a variety of important instances.

A great number of laws had been passed, violating, without any apparent necessity, the rule
requiring that all bills of a public nature shall be previously printed for the consideration of the
people; although this is one of the precautions chiefly relied on by the constitution against
improper acts of legislature.

The constitutional trial by jury had been violated, and powers assumed which had not been
delegated by the constitution.

Executive powers had been usurped.




                                                                   229
 
                              


The salaries of the judges, which the constitution expressly requires to be fixed, had been
occasionally varied; and cases belonging to the judiciary department frequently drawn within
legislative cognizance and determination.

Those who wish to see the several particulars falling under each of these heads, may consult the
journals of the council, which are in print. Some of them, it will be found, may be imputable to
peculiar circumstances connected with the war; but the greater part of them may be considered as
the spontaneous shoots of an ill-constituted government.

It appears, also, that the executive department had not been innocent of frequent breaches of the
constitution. There are three observations, however, which ought to be made on this head: first, a
great proportion of the instances were either immediately produced by the necessities of the war,
or recommended by Congress or the commander-in-chief; second, in most of the other instances,
they conformed either to the declared or the known sentiments of the legislative department;
third, the executive department of Pennsylvania is distinguished from that of the other States by
the number of members composing it. In this respect, it has as much affinity to a legislative
assembly as to an executive council. And being at once exempt from the restraint of an
individual responsibility for the acts of the body, and deriving confidence from mutual example
and joint influence, unauthorized measures would, of course, be more freely hazarded, than
where the executive department is administered by a single hand, or by a few hands.

The conclusion which I am warranted in drawing from these observations is, that a mere
demarcation on parchment of the constitutional limits of the several departments, is not a
sufficient guard against those encroachments which lead to a tyrannical concentration of all the
powers of government in the same hands.




                                                               230
 
                              



Federalist No. 49 - Method of Guarding Against the Encroachments
of Any One Department of Government by Appealing to the People
Through a Convention
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Saturday, February 2, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE author of the Notes on the State of Virginia, quoted in the last paper, has subjoined to that
valuable work the draught of a constitution, which had been prepared in order to be laid before a
convention, expected to be called in 1783, by the legislature, for the establishment of a
constitution for that commonwealth. The plan, like every thing from the same pen, marks a turn
of thinking, original, comprehensive, and accurate; and is the more worthy of attention as it
equally displays a fervent attachment to republican government and an enlightened view of the
dangerous propensities against which it ought to be guarded. One of the precautions which he
proposes, and on which he appears ultimately to rely as a palladium to the weaker departments of
power against the invasions of the stronger, is perhaps altogether his own, and as it immediately
relates to the subject of our present inquiry, ought not to be overlooked.

His proposition is, “that whenever any two of the three branches of government shall concur in
opinion, each by the voices of two thirds of their whole number, that a convention is necessary
for altering the constitution, or correcting breaches of it, a convention shall be called for the
purpose.”

As the people are the only legitimate fountain of power, and it is from them that the
constitutional charter, under which the several branches of government hold their power, is
derived, it seems strictly consonant to the republican theory, to recur to the same original
authority, not only whenever it may be necessary to enlarge, diminish, or new-model the powers
of the government, but also whenever any one of the departments may commit encroachments on
the chartered authorities of the others. The several departments being perfectly co-ordinate by the
terms of their common commission, none of them, it is evident, can pretend to an exclusive or
superior right of settling the boundaries between their respective powers; and how are the
encroachments of the stronger to be prevented, or the wrongs of the weaker to be redressed,
without an appeal to the people themselves, who, as the grantors of the commissions, can alone
declare its true meaning, and enforce its observance?

There is certainly great force in this reasoning, and it must be allowed to prove that a
constitutional road to the decision of the people ought to be marked out and kept open, for
certain great and extraordinary occasions. But there appear to be insuperable objections against




                                                                231
 
                               


the proposed recurrence to the people, as a provision in all cases for keeping the several
departments of power within their constitutional limits.

In the first place, the provision does not reach the case of a combination of two of the
departments against the third. If the legislative authority, which possesses so many means of
operating on the motives of the other departments, should be able to gain to its interest either of
the others, or even one third of its members, the remaining department could derive no advantage
from its remedial provision. I do not dwell, however, on this objection, because it may be
thought to be rather against the modification of the principle, than against the principle itself.

In the next place, it may be considered as an objection inherent in the principle, that as every
appeal to the people would carry an implication of some defect in the government, frequent
appeals would, in a great measure, deprive the government of that veneration which time
bestows on every thing, and without which perhaps the wisest and freest governments would not
possess the requisite stability. If it be true that all governments rest on opinion, it is no less true
that the strength of opinion in each individual, and its practical influence on his conduct, depend
much on the number which he supposes to have entertained the same opinion. The reason of
man, like man himself, is timid and cautious when left alone, and acquires firmness and
confidence in proportion to the number with which it is associated. When the examples which
fortify opinion are ancient as well as numerous, they are known to have a double effect. In a
nation of philosophers, this consideration ought to be disregarded. A reverence for the laws
would be sufficiently inculcated by the voice of an enlightened reason. But a nation of
philosophers is as little to be expected as the philosophical race of kings wished for by Plato.
And in every other nation, the most rational government will not find it a superfluous advantage
to have the prejudices of the community on its side.

The danger of disturbing the public tranquillity by interesting too strongly the public passions, is
a still more serious objection against a frequent reference of constitutional questions to the
decision of the whole society. Notwithstanding the success which has attended the revisions of
our established forms of government, and which does so much honor to the virtue and
intelligence of the people of America, it must be confessed that the experiments are of too
ticklish a nature to be unnecessarily multiplied. We are to recollect that all the existing
constitutions were formed in the midst of a danger which repressed the passions most unfriendly
to order and concord; of an enthusiastic confidence of the people in their patriotic leaders, which
stifled the ordinary diversity of opinions on great national questions; of a universal ardor for new
and opposite forms, produced by a universal resentment and indignation against the ancient
government; and whilst no spirit of party connected with the changes to be made, or the abuses
to be reformed, could mingle its leaven in the operation. The future situations in which we must
expect to be usually placed, do not present any equivalent security against the danger which is
apprehended.

But the greatest objection of all is, that the decisions which would probably result from such
appeals would not answer the purpose of maintaining the constitutional equilibrium of the



                                                                    232
 
                               


government. We have seen that the tendency of republican governments is to an aggrandizement
of the legislative at the expense of the other departments. The appeals to the people, therefore,
would usually be made by the executive and judiciary departments. But whether made by one
side or the other, would each side enjoy equal advantages on the trial? Let us view their different
situations. The members of the executive and judiciary departments are few in number, and can
be personally known to a small part only of the people. The latter, by the mode of their
appointment, as well as by the nature and permanency of it, are too far removed from the people
to share much in their prepossessions. The former are generally the objects of jealousy, and their
administration is always liable to be discolored and rendered unpopular. The members of the
legislative department, on the other hand, are numberous. They are distributed and dwell among
the people at large. Their connections of blood, of friendship, and of acquaintance embrace a
great proportion of the most influential part of the society. The nature of their public trust implies
a personal influence among the people, and that they are more immediately the confidential
guardians of the rights and liberties of the people. With these advantages, it can hardly be
supposed that the adverse party would have an equal chance for a favorable issue.

But the legislative party would not only be able to plead their cause most successfully with the
people. They would probably be constituted themselves the judges. The same influence which
had gained them an election into the legislature, would gain them a seat in the convention. If this
should not be the case with all, it would probably be the case with many, and pretty certainly
with those leading characters, on whom every thing depends in such bodies. The convention, in
short, would be composed chiefly of men who had been, who actually were, or who expected to
be, members of the department whose conduct was arraigned. They would consequently be
parties to the very question to be decided by them.

It might, however, sometimes happen, that appeals would be made under circumstances less
adverse to the executive and judiciary departments. The usurpations of the legislature might be
so flagrant and so sudden, as to admit of no specious coloring. A strong party among themselves
might take side with the other branches. The executive power might be in the hands of a peculiar
favorite of the people. In such a posture of things, the public decision might be less swayed by
prepossessions in favor of the legislative party. But still it could never be expected to turn on the
true merits of the question. It would inevitably be connected with the spirit of pre-existing
parties, or of parties springing out of the question itself. It would be connected with persons of
distinguished character and extensive influence in the community. It would be pronounced by the
very men who had been agents in, or opponents of, the measures to which the decision would
relate. The PASSIONS, therefore, not the REASON, of the public would sit in judgment. But it
is the reason, alone, of the public, that ought to control and regulate the government. The
passions ought to be controlled and regulated by the government.

We found in the last paper, that mere declarations in the written constitution are not sufficient to
restrain the several departments within their legal rights. It appears in this, that occasional
appeals to the people would be neither a proper nor an effectual provision for that purpose. How
far the provisions of a different nature contained in the plan above quoted might be adequate, I



                                                                  233
 
                              


do not examine. Some of them are unquestionably founded on sound political principles, and all
of them are framed with singular ingenuity and precision.




                                                            234
 
                               



Federalist No. 50 - Periodical Appeals to the People Considered
Written by James Madison
New York Packet, Tuesday, February 5, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

IT MAY be contended, perhaps, that instead of occasional appeals to the people, which are liable
to the objections urged against them, periodical appeals are the proper and adequate means of
preventing and correcting infractions of the Constitution.

It will be attended to, that in the examination of these expedients, I confine myself to their
aptitude for enforcing the Constitution, by keeping the several departments of power within their
due bounds, without particularly considering them as provisions for altering the Constitution
itself. In the first view, appeals to the people at fixed periods appear to be nearly as ineligible as
appeals on particular occasions as they emerge. If the periods be separated by short intervals, the
measures to be reviewed and rectified will have been of recent date, and will be connected with
all the circumstances which tend to vitiate and pervert the result of occasional revisions. If the
periods be distant from each other, the same remark will be applicable to all recent measures;
and in proportion as the remoteness of the others may favor a dispassionate review of them, this
advantage is inseparable from inconveniences which seem to counterbalance it. In the first place,
a distant prospect of public censure would be a very feeble restraint on power from those
excesses to which it might be urged by the force of present motives. Is it to be imagined that a
legislative assembly, consisting of a hundred or two hundred members, eagerly bent on some
favorite object, and breaking through the restraints of the Constitution in pursuit of it, would be
arrested in their career, by considerations drawn from a censorial revision of their conduct at the
future distance of ten, fifteen, or twenty years? In the next place, the abuses would often have
completed their mischievous effects before the remedial provision would be applied. And in the
last place, where this might not be the case, they would be of long standing, would have taken
deep root, and would not easily be extirpated.

The scheme of revising the constitution, in order to correct recent breaches of it, as well as for
other purposes, has been actually tried in one of the States. One of the objects of the Council of
Censors which met in Pennsylvania in 1783 and 1784, was, as we have seen, to inquire, “whether
the constitution had been violated, and whether the legislative and executive departments had
encroached upon each other.” This important and novel experiment in politics merits, in several
points of view, very particular attention. In some of them it may, perhaps, as a single experiment,
made under circumstances somewhat peculiar, be thought to be not absolutely conclusive. But as
applied to the case under consideration, it involves some facts, which I venture to remark, as a
complete and satisfactory illustration of the reasoning which I have employed.




                                                                   235
 
                               


First. It appears, from the names of the gentlemen who composed the council, that some, at least,
of its most active members had also been active and leading characters in the parties which pre-
existed in the State.

Second. It appears that the same active and leading members of the council had been active and
influential members of the legislative and executive branches, within the period to be reviewed;
and even patrons or opponents of the very measures to be thus brought to the test of the
constitution. Two of the members had been vice-presidents of the State, and several other
members of the executive council, within the seven preceding years. One of them had been
speaker, and a number of others distinguished members, of the legislative assembly within the
same period.

Third. Every  of their proceedings witnesses the effect of all these circumstances on the
temper of their deliberations. Throughout the continuance of the council, it was split into two
fixed and violent parties. The fact is acknowledged and lamented by themselves. Had this not
been the case, the face of their proceedings exhibits a proof equally satisfactory. In all questions,
however unimportant in themselves, or unconnected with each other, the same names stand
invariably contrasted on the opposite columns. Every unbiased observer may infer, without
danger of mistake, and at the same time without meaning to reflect on either party, or any
individuals of either party, that, unfortunately, passion, not reason, must have presided over their
decisions. When men exercise their reason coolly and freely on a variety of distinct questions,
they inevitably fall into different opinions on some of them. When they are governed by a
common passion, their opinions, if they are so to be called, will be the same.

Fourth. It is at least problematical, whether the decisions of this body do not, in several instances,
misconstrue the limits prescribed for the legislative and executive departments, instead of
reducing and limiting them within their constitutional places.

Fifth. I have never understood that the decisions of the council on constitutional questions,
whether rightly or erroneously formed, have had any effect in varying the practice founded on
legislative constructions. It even appears, if I mistake not, that in one instance the contemporary
legislature denied the constructions of the council, and actually prevailed in the contest.

This censorial body, therefore, proves at the same time, by its researches, the existence of the
disease, and by its example, the inefficacy of the remedy.

This conclusion cannot be invalidated by alleging that the State in which the experiment was
made was at that crisis, and had been for a long time before, violently heated and distracted by
the rage of party. Is it to be presumed, that at any future septennial epoch the same State will be
free from parties? Is it to be presumed that any other State, at the same or any other given period,
will be exempt from them? Such an event ought to be neither presumed nor desired; because an
extinction of parties necessarily implies either a universal alarm for the public safety, or an
absolute extinction of liberty.



                                                                  236
 
                              



Were the precaution taken of excluding from the assemblies elected by the people, to revise the
preceding administration of the government, all persons who should have been concerned with
the government within the given period, the difficulties would not be obviated. The important
task would probably devolve on men, who, with inferior capacities, would in other respects be
little better qualified. Although they might not have been personally concerned in the
administration, and therefore not immediately agents in the measures to be examined, they would
probably have been involved in the parties connected with these measures, and have been elected
under their auspices.




                                                            237
 
                               



Federalist No. 51 - The Structure of the Government Must Furnish
the Proper Checks and Balances Between the Different Departments
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Wednesday, February 6, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

TO WHAT expedient, then, shall we finally resort, for maintaining in practice the necessary
partition of power among the several departments, as laid down in the Constitution? The only
answer that can be given is, that as all these exterior provisions are found to be inadequate, the
defect must be supplied, by so contriving the interior structure of the government as that its
several constituent parts may, by their mutual relations, be the means of keeping each other in
their proper places. Without presuming to undertake a full development of this important idea, I
will hazard a few general observations, which may perhaps place it in a clearer light, and enable
us to form a more correct judgment of the principles and structure of the government planned by
the convention.

In order to lay a due foundation for that separate and distinct exercise of the different powers of
government, which to a certain extent is admitted on all hands to be essential to the preservation
of liberty, it is evident that each department should have a will of its own; and consequently
should be so constituted that the members of each should have as little agency as possible in the
appointment of the members of the others. Were this principle rigorously adhered to, it would
require that all the appointments for the supreme executive, legislative, and judiciary
magistracies should be drawn from the same fountain of authority, the people, through channels
having no communication whatever with one another. Perhaps such a plan of constructing the
several departments would be less difficult in practice than it may in contemplation appear.
Some difficulties, however, and some additional expense would attend the execution of it. Some
deviations, therefore, from the principle must be admitted. In the constitution of the judiciary
department in particular, it might be inexpedient to insist rigorously on the principle: first,
because peculiar qualifications being essential in the members, the primary consideration ought
to be to select that mode of choice which best secures these qualifications; secondly, because the
permanent tenure by which the appointments are held in that department, must soon destroy all
sense of dependence on the authority conferring them.

It is equally evident, that the members of each department should be as little dependent as
possible on those of the others, for the emoluments annexed to their offices. Were the executive
magistrate, or the judges, not independent of the legislature in this particular, their independence
in every other would be merely nominal.

But the great security against a gradual concentration of the several powers in the same
department, consists in giving to those who administer each department the necessary


                                                                 238
 
                              


constitutional means and personal motives to resist encroachments of the others. The provision
for defense must in this, as in all other cases, be made commensurate to the danger of attack.
Ambition must be made to counteract ambition. The interest of the man must be connected with
the constitutional rights of the place. It may be a reflection on human nature, that such devices
should be necessary to control the abuses of government. But what is government itself, but the
greatest of all reflections on human nature? If men were angels, no government would be
necessary. If angels were to govern men, neither external nor internal controls on government
would be necessary. In framing a government which is to be administered by men over men, the
great difficulty lies in this: you must first enable the government to control the governed; and in
the next place oblige it to control itself. A dependence on the people is, no doubt, the primary
control on the government; but experience has taught mankind the necessity of auxiliary
precautions.

This policy of supplying, by opposite and rival interests, the defect of better motives, might be
traced through the whole system of human affairs, private as well as public. We see it
particularly displayed in all the subordinate distributions of power, where the constant aim is to
divide and arrange the several offices in such a manner as that each may be a check on the other
— that the private interest of every individual may be a sentinel over the public rights. These
inventions of prudence cannot be less requisite in the distribution of the supreme powers of the
State.

But it is not possible to give to each department an equal power of self-defense. In republican
government, the legislative authority necessarily predominates. The remedy for this
inconveniency is to divide the legislature into different branches; and to render them, by different
modes of election and different principles of action, as little connected with each other as the
nature of their common functions and their common dependence on the society will admit. It
may even be necessary to guard against dangerous encroachments by still further precautions. As
the weight of the legislative authority requires that it should be thus divided, the weakness of the
executive may require, on the other hand, that it should be fortified. An absolute negative on the
legislature appears, at first view, to be the natural defense with which the executive magistrate
should be armed. But perhaps it would be neither altogether safe nor alone sufficient. On
ordinary occasions it might not be exerted with the requisite firmness, and on extraordinary
occasions it might be perfidiously abused. May not this defect of an absolute negative be
supplied by some qualified connection between this weaker department and the weaker branch of
the stronger department, by which the latter may be led to support the constitutional rights of the
former, without being too much detached from the rights of its own department?

If the principles on which these observations are founded be just, as I persuade myself they are,
and they be applied as a criterion to the several State constitutions, and to the federal
Constitution it will be found that if the latter does not perfectly correspond with them, the former
are infinitely less able to bear such a test.




                                                                 239
 
                                


There are, moreover, two considerations particularly applicable to the federal system of America,
which place that system in a very interesting point of view.

First. In a single republic, all the power surrendered by the people is submitted to the
administration of a single government; and the usurpations are guarded against by a division of
the government into distinct and separate departments. In the compound republic of America, the
power surrendered by the people is first divided between two distinct governments, and then the
portion allotted to each subdivided among distinct and separate departments. Hence a double
security arises to the rights of the people. The different governments will control each other, at
the same time that each will be controlled by itself.

Second. It is of great importance in a republic not only to guard the society against the
oppression of its rulers, but to guard one part of the society against the injustice of the other part.
Different interests necessarily exist in different classes of citizens. If a majority be united by a
common interest, the rights of the minority will be insecure. There are but two methods of
providing against this evil: the one by creating a will in the community independent of the
majority — that is, of the society itself; the other, by comprehending in the society so many
separate descriptions of citizens as will render an unjust combination of a majority of the whole
very improbable, if not impracticable. The first method prevails in all governments possessing an
hereditary or self-appointed authority. This, at best, is but a precarious security; because a power
independent of the society may as well espouse the unjust views of the major, as the rightful
interests of the minor party, and may possibly be turned against both parties. The second method
will be exemplified in the federal republic of the United States. Whilst all authority in it will be
derived from and dependent on the society, the society itself will be broken into so many parts,
interests, and classes of citizens, that the rights of individuals, or of the minority, will be in little
danger from interested combinations of the majority. In a free government the security for civil
rights must be the same as that for religious rights. It consists in the one case in the multiplicity
of interests, and in the other in the multiplicity of sects. The degree of security in both cases will
depend on the number of interests and sects; and this may be presumed to depend on the extent
of country and number of people comprehended under the same government. This view of the
subject must particularly recommend a proper federal system to all the sincere and considerate
friends of republican government, since it shows that in exact proportion as the territory of the
Union may be formed into more circumscribed Confederacies, or States oppressive combinations
of a majority will be facilitated: the best security, under the republican forms, for the rights of
every class of citizens, will be diminished: and consequently the stability and independence of
some member of the government, the only other security, must be proportionately increased.
Justice is the end of government. It is the end of civil society. It ever has been and ever will be
pursued until it be obtained, or until liberty be lost in the pursuit. In a society under the forms of
which the stronger faction can readily unite and oppress the weaker, anarchy may as truly be said
to reign as in a state of nature, where the weaker individual is not secured against the violence of
the stronger; and as, in the latter state, even the stronger individuals are prompted, by the
uncertainty of their condition, to submit to a government which may protect the weak as well as
themselves; so, in the former state, will the more powerful factions or parties be gradnally



                                                                     240
 
                               


induced, by a like motive, to wish for a government which will protect all parties, the weaker as
well as the more powerful. It can be little doubted that if the State of Rhode Island was separated
from the Confederacy and left to itself, the insecurity of rights under the popular form of
government within such narrow limits would be displayed by such reiterated oppressions of
factious majorities that some power altogether independent of the people would soon be called
for by the voice of the very factions whose misrule had proved the necessity of it. In the
extended republic of the United States, and among the great variety of interests, parties, and sects
which it embraces, a coalition of a majority of the whole society could seldom take place on any
other principles than those of justice and the general good; whilst there being thus less danger to
a minor from the will of a major party, there must be less pretext, also, to provide for the security
of the former, by introducing into the government a will not dependent on the latter, or, in other
words, a will independent of the society itself. It is no less certain than it is important,
notwithstanding the contrary opinions which have been entertained, that the larger the society,
provided it lie within a practical sphere, the more duly capable it will be of self-government. And
happily for the republican cause, the practicable sphere may be carried to a very great extent, by
a judicious modification and mixture of the federal principle.




                                                                 241
 
                               



Federalist No. 52 - The House of Representatives
Written by James Madison
New York Packet, Friday, February 8, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

FROM the more general inquiries pursued in the four last papers, I pass on to a more particular
examination of the several parts of the government. I shall begin with the House of
Representatives.

The first view to be taken of this part of the government relates to the qualifications of the
electors and the elected. Those of the former are to be the same with those of the electors of the
most numerous branch of the State legislatures. The definition of the right of suffrage is very
justly regarded as a fundamental article of republican government. It was incumbent on the
convention, therefore, to define and establish this right in the Constitution. To have left it open
for the occasional regulation of the Congress, would have been improper for the reason just
mentioned. To have submitted it to the legislative discretion of the States, would have been
improper for the same reason; and for the additional reason that it would have rendered too
dependent on the State governments that branch of the federal government which ought to be
dependent on the people alone. To have reduced the different qualifications in the different
States to one uniform rule, would probably have been as dissatisfactory to some of the States as
it would have been difficult to the convention. The provision made by the convention appears,
therefore, to be the best that lay within their option. It must be satisfactory to every State,
because it is conformable to the standard already established, or which may be established, by
the State itself. It will be safe to the United States, because, being fixed by the State
constitutions, it is not alterable by the State governments, and it cannot be feared that the people
of the States will alter this part of their constitutions in such a manner as to abridge the rights
secured to them by the federal Constitution.

The qualifications of the elected, being less carefully and properly defined by the State
constitutions, and being at the same time more susceptible of uniformity, have been very
properly considered and regulated by the convention. A representative of the United States must
be of the age of twenty-five years; must have been seven years a citizen of the United States;
must, at the time of his election, be an inhabitant of the State he is to represent; and, during the
time of his service, must be in no office under the United States. Under these reasonable
limitations, the door of this part of the federal government is open to merit of every description,
whether native or adoptive, whether young or old, and without regard to poverty or wealth, or to
any particular profession of religious faith.

The term for which the representatives are to be elected falls under a second view which may be
taken of this branch. In order to decide on the propriety of this article, two questions must be



                                                                  242
 
                               


considered: first, whether biennial elections will, in this case, be safe; secondly, whether they be
necessary or useful.

First. As it is essential to liberty that the government in general should have a common interest
with the people, so it is particularly essential that the branch of it under consideration should
have an immediate dependence on, and an intimate sympathy with, the people. Frequent
elections are unquestionably the only policy by which this dependence and sympathy can be
effectually secured. But what particular degree of frequency may be absolutely necessary for the
purpose, does not appear to be susceptible of any precise calculation, and must depend on a
variety of circumstances with which it may be connected. Let us consult experience, the guide
that ought always to be followed whenever it can be found.

The scheme of representation, as a substitute for a meeting of the citizens in person, being at
most but very imperfectly known to ancient polity, it is in more modern times only that we are to
expect instructive examples. And even here, in order to avoid a research too vague and diffusive,
it will be proper to confine ourselves to the few examples which are best known, and which bear
the greatest analogy to our particular case. The first to which this character ought to be applied,
is the House of Commons in Great Britain. The history of this branch of the English
Constitution, anterior to the date of Magna Charta, is too obscure to yield instruction. The very
existence of it has been made a question among political antiquaries. The earliest records of
subsequent date prove that parliaments were to sit only every year; not that they were to be
elected every year. And even these annual sessions were left so much at the discretion of the
monarch, that, under various pretexts, very long and dangerous intermissions were often
contrived by royal ambition. To remedy this grievance, it was provided by a statute in the reign
of Charles II. , that the intermissions should not be protracted beyond a period of three years. On
the accession of William III., when a revolution took place in the government, the subject was
still more seriously resumed, and it was declared to be among the fundamental rights of the
people that parliaments ought to be held frequently. By another statute, which passed a few years
later in the same reign, the term “frequently,” which had alluded to the triennial period settled in
the time of Charles II. , is reduced to a precise meaning, it being expressly enacted that a new
parliament shall be called within three years after the termination of the former. The last change,
from three to seven years, is well known to have been introduced pretty early in the present
century, under on alarm for the Hanoverian succession. From these facts it appears that the
greatest frequency of elections which has been deemed necessary in that kingdom, for binding
the representatives to their constituents, does not exceed a triennial return of them. And if we
may argue from the degree of liberty retained even under septennial elections, and all the other
vicious ingredients in the parliamentary constitution, we cannot doubt that a reduction of the
period from seven to three years, with the other necessary reforms, would so far extend the
influence of the people over their representatives as to satisfy us that biennial elections, under the
federal system, cannot possibly be dangerous to the requisite dependence of the House of
Representatives on their constituents.




                                                                  243
 
                               


Elections in Ireland, till of late, were regulated entirely by the discretion of the crown, and were
seldom repeated, except on the accession of a new prince, or some other contingent event. The
parliament which commenced with George II. was continued throughout his whole reign, a
period of about thirty-five years. The only dependence of the representatives on the people
consisted in the right of the latter to supply occasional vacancies by the election of new
members, and in the chance of some event which might produce a general new election. The
ability also of the Irish parliament to maintain the rights of their constituents, so far as the
disposition might exist, was extremely shackled by the control of the crown over the subjects of
their deliberation. Of late these shackles, if I mistake not, have been broken; and octennial
parliaments have besides been established. What effect may be produced by this partial reform,
must be left to further experience. The example of Ireland, from this view of it, can throw but
little light on the subject. As far as we can draw any conclusion from it, it must be that if the
people of that country have been able under all these disadvantages to retain any liberty
whatever, the advantage of biennial elections would secure to them every degree of liberty,
which might depend on a due connection between their representatives and themselves.

Let us bring our inquiries nearer home. The example of these States, when British colonies,
claims particular attention, at the same time that it is so well known as to require little to be said
on it. The principle of representation, in one branch of the legislature at least, was established in
all of them. But the periods of election were different. They varied from one to seven years.
Have we any reason to infer, from the spirit and conduct of the representatives of the people,
prior to the Revolution, that biennial elections would have been dangerous to the public liberties?
The spirit which everywhere displayed itself at the commencement of the struggle, and which
vanquished the obstacles to independence, is the best of proofs that a sufficient portion of liberty
had been everywhere enjoyed to inspire both a sense of its worth and a zeal for its proper
enlargement This remark holds good, as well with regard to the then colonies whose elections
were least frequent, as to those whose elections were most frequent Virginia was the colony
which stood first in resisting the parliamentary usurpations of Great Britain; it was the first also
in espousing, by public act, the resolution of independence. In Virginia, nevertheless, if I have
not been misinformed, elections under the former government were septennial. This particular
example is brought into view, not as a proof of any peculiar merit, for the priority in those
instances was probably accidental; and still less of any advantage in septennial elections, for
when compared with a greater frequency they are inadmissible; but merely as a proof, and I
conceive it to be a very substantial proof, that the liberties of the people can be in no danger from
biennial elections.

The conclusion resulting from these examples will be not a little strengthened by recollecting
three circumstances. The first is, that the federal legislature will possess a part only of that
supreme legislative authority which is vested completely in the British Parliament; and which,
with a few exceptions, was exercised by the colonial assemblies and the Irish legislature. It is a
received and well-founded maxim, that where no other circumstances affect the case, the greater
the power is, the shorter ought to be its duration; and, conversely, the smaller the power, the
more safely may its duration be protracted. In the second place, it has, on another occasion, been



                                                                  244
 
                              


shown that the federal legislature will not only be restrained by its dependence on its people, as
other legislative bodies are, but that it will be, moreover, watched and controlled by the several
collateral legislatures, which other legislative bodies are not. And in the third place, no
comparison can be made between the means that will be possessed by the more permanent
branches of the federal government for seducing, if they should be disposed to seduce, the House
of Representatives from their duty to the people, and the means of influence over the popular
branch possessed by the other branches of the government above cited. With less power,
therefore, to abuse, the federal representatives can be less tempted on one side, and will be
doubly watched on the other.




                                                               245
 
                              



Federalist No. 53 - The House of Representatives (continued)
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Saturday, February 9, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

I SHALL here, perhaps, be reminded of a current observation, “that where annual elections end,
tyranny begins.” If it be true, as has often been remarked, that sayings which become proverbial
are generally founded in reason, it is not less true, that when once established, they are often
applied to cases to which the reason of them does not extend. I need not look for a proof beyond
the case before us. What is the reason on which this proverbial observation is founded? No man
will subject himself to the ridicule of pretending that any natural connection subsists between the
sun or the seasons, and the period within which human virtue can bear the temptations of power.
Happily for mankind, liberty is not, in this respect, confined to any single point of time; but lies
within extremes, which afford sufficient latitude for all the variations which may be required by
the various situations and circumstances of civil society. The election of magistrates might be, if
it were found expedient, as in some instances it actually has been, daily, weekly, or monthly, as
well as annual; and if circumstances may require a deviation from the rule on one side, why not
also on the other side? Turning our attention to the periods established among ourselves, for the
election of the most numerous branches of the State legislatures, we find them by no means
coinciding any more in this instance, than in the elections of other civil magistrates. In
Connecticut and Rhode Island, the periods are half-yearly. In the other States, South Carolina
excepted, they are annual. In South Carolina they are biennial — as is proposed in the federal
government. Here is a difference, as four to one, between the longest and shortest periods; and
yet it would be not easy to show, that Connecticut or Rhode Island is better governed, or enjoys a
greater share of rational liberty, than South Carolina; or that either the one or the other of these
States is distinguished in these respects, and by these causes, from the States whose elections are
different from both.

In searching for the grounds of this doctrine, I can discover but one, and that is wholly
inapplicable to our case. The important distinction so well understood in America, between a
Constitution established by the people and unalterable by the government, and a law established
by the government and alterable by the government, seems to have been little understood and
less observed in any other country. Wherever the supreme power of legislation has resided, has
been supposed to reside also a full power to change the form of the government. Even in Great
Britain, where the principles of political and civil liberty have been most discussed, and where
we hear most of the rights of the Constitution, it is maintained that the authority of the
Parliament is transcendent and uncontrollable, as well with regard to the Constitution, as the
ordinary objects of legislative provision. They have accordingly, in several instances, actually
changed, by legislative acts, some of the most fundamental articles of the government. They
have in particular, on several occasions, changed the period of election; and, on the last occasion,



                                                                 246
 
                              


not only introduced septennial in place of triennial elections, but by the same act, continued
themselves in place four years beyond the term for which they were elected by the people. An
attention to these dangerous practices has produced a very natural alarm in the votaries of free
government, of which frequency of elections is the corner-stone; and has led them to seek for
some security to liberty, against the danger to which it is exposed. Where no Constitution,
paramount to the government, either existed or could be obtained, no constitutional security,
similar to that established in the United States, was to be attempted. Some other security,
therefore, was to be sought for; and what better security would the case admit, than that of
selecting and appealing to some simple and familiar portion of time, as a standard for measuring
the danger of innovations, for fixing the national sentiment, and for uniting the patriotic
exertions? The most simple and familiar portion of time, applicable to the subject was that of a
year; and hence the doctrine has been inculcated by a laudable zeal, to erect some barrier against
the gradual innovations of an unlimited government, that the advance towards tyranny was to be
calculated by the distance of departure from the fixed point of annual elections. But what
necessity can there be of applying this expedient to a government limited, as the federal
government will be, by the authority of a paramount Constitution? Or who will pretend that the
liberties of the people of America will not be more secure under biennial elections, unalterably
fixed by such a Constitution, than those of any other nation would be, where elections were
annual, or even more frequent, but subject to alterations by the ordinary power of the
government?

The second question stated is, whether biennial elections be necessary or useful. The propriety of
answering this question in the affirmative will appear from several very obvious considerations.

No man can be a competent legislator who does not add to an upright intention and a sound
judgment a certain degree of knowledge of the subjects on which he is to legislate. A part of this
knowledge may be acquired by means of information which lie within the compass of men in
private as well as public stations. Another part can only be attained, or at least thoroughly
attained, by actual experience in the station which requires the use of it. The period of service,
ought, therefore, in all such cases, to bear some proportion to the extent of practical knowledge
requisite to the due performance of the service. The period of legislative service established in
most of the States for the more numerous branch is, as we have seen, one year. The question then
may be put into this simple form: does the period of two years bear no greater proportion to the
knowledge requisite for federal legislation than one year does to the knowledge requisite for
State legislation? The very statement of the question, in this form, suggests the answer that ought
to be given to it.

In a single State, the requisite knowledge relates to the existing laws which are uniform
throughout the State, and with which all the citizens are more or less conversant; and to the
general affairs of the State, which lie within a small compass, are not very diversified, and
occupy much of the attention and conversation of every class of people. The great theatre of the
United States presents a very different scene. The laws are so far from being uniform, that they
vary in every State; whilst the public affairs of the Union are spread throughout a very extensive



                                                                247
 
                               


region, and are extremely diversified by the local affairs connected with them, and can with
difficulty be correctly learnt in any other place than in the central councils to which a knowledge
of them will be brought by the representatives of every part of the empire. Yet some knowledge
of the affairs, and even of the laws, of all the States, ought to be possessed by the members from
each of the States. How can foreign trade be properly regulated by uniform laws, without some
acquaintance with the commerce, the ports, the usages, and the regulatious of the different
States? How can the trade between the different States be duly regulated, without some
knowledge of their relative situations in these and other respects? How can taxes be judiciously
imposed and effectually collected, if they be not accommodated to the different laws and local
circumstances relating to these objects in the different States? How can uniform regulations for
the militia be duly provided, without a similar knowledge of many internal circumstances by
which the States are distinguished from each other? These are the principal objects of federal
legislation, and suggest most forcibly the extensive information which the representatives ought
to acquire. The other interior objects will require a proportional degree of information with
regard to them.

It is true that all these difficulties will, by degrees, be very much diminished. The most laborious
task will be the proper inauguration of the government and the primeval formation of a federal
code. Improvements on the first draughts will every year become both easier and fewer. Past
transactions of the government will be a ready and accurate source of information to new
members. The affairs of the Union will become more and more objects of curiosity and
conversation among the citizens at large. And the increased intercourse among those of different
States will contribute not a little to diffuse a mutual knowledge of their affairs, as this again will
contribute to a general assimilation of their manners and laws. But with all these abatements, the
business of federal legislation must continue so far to exceed, both in novelty and difficulty, the
legislative business of a single State, as to justify the longer period of service assigned to those
who are to transact it.

A branch of knowledge which belongs to the acquirements of a federal representative, and which
has not been mentioned is that of foreign affairs. In regulating our own commerce he ought to be
not only acquainted with the treaties between the United States and other nations, but also with
the commercial policy and laws of other nations. He ought not to be altogether ignorant of the
law of nations; for that, as far as it is a proper object of municipal legislation, is submitted to the
federal government. And although the House of Representatives is not immediately to participate
in foreign negotiations and arrangements, yet from the necessary connection between the several
branches of public affairs, those particular branches will frequently deserve attention in the
ordinary course of legislation, and will sometimes demand particular legislative sanction and co-
operation. Some portion of this knowledge may, no doubt, be acquired in a man’s closet; but
some of it also can only be derived from the public sources of information; and all of it will be
acquired to best effect by a practical attention to the subject during the period of actual service in
the legislature.




                                                                   248
 
                               


There are other considerations, of less importance, perhaps, but which are not unworthy of
notice. The distance which many of the representatives will be obliged to travel, and the
arrangements rendered necessary by that circumstance, might be much more serious objections
with fit men to this service, if limited to a single year, than if extended to two years. No
argument can be drawn on this subject, from the case of the delegates to the existing Congress.
They are elected annually, it is true; but their re-election is considered by the legislative
assemblies almost as a matter of course. The election of the representatives by the people would
not be governed by the same principle.

A few of the members, as happens in all such assemblies, will possess superior talents; will, by
frequent reelections, become members of long standing; will be thoroughly masters of the public
business, and perhaps not unwilling to avail themselves of those advantages. The greater the
proportion of new members, and the less the information of the bulk of the members the more
apt will they be to fall into the snares that may be laid for them. This remark is no less applicable
to the relation which will subsist between the House of Representatives and the Senate.

It is an inconvenience mingled with the advantages of our frequent elections even in single
States, where they are large, and hold but one legislative session in a year, that spurious elections
cannot be investigated and annulled in time for the decision to have its due effect. If a return can
be obtained, no matter by what unlawful means, the irregular member, who takes his seat of
course, is sure of holding it a sufficient time to answer his purposes. Hence, a very pernicious
encouragement is given to the use of unlawful means, for obtaining irregular returns. Were
elections for the federal legislature to be annual, this practice might become a very serious abuse,
particularly in the more distant States. Each house is, as it necessarily must be, the judge of the
elections, qualifications, and returns of its members; and whatever improvements may be
suggested by experience, for simplifying and accelerating the process in disputed cases, so great
a portion of a year would unavoidably elapse, before an illegitimate member could be
dispossessed of his seat, that the prospect of such an event would be little check to unfair and
illicit means of obtaining a seat.

All these considerations taken together warrant us in affirming, that biennial elections will be as
useful to the affairs of the public as we have seen that they will be safe to the liberty of the
people.




                                                                  249
 
                               



Federalist No. 54 - Apportionment of Members of the House of
Representatives Among the States
Written by James Madison
New York Packet, Tuesday, February 12, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE next view which I shall take of the House of Representatives relates to the appointment of
its members to the several States which is to be determined by the same rule with that of direct
taxes.

It is not contended that the number of people in each State ought not to be the standard for
regulating the proportion of those who are to represent the people of each State. The
establishment of the same rule for the appointment of taxes, will probably be as little contested;
though the rule itself in this case, is by no means founded on the same principle. In the former
case, the rule is understood to refer to the personal rights of the people, with which it has a
natural and universal connection. In the latter, it has reference to the proportion of wealth, of
which it is in no case a precise measure, and in ordinary cases a very unfit one. But
notwithstanding the imperfection of the rule as applied to the relative wealth and contributions of
the States, it is evidently the least objectionable among the practicable rules, and had too recently
obtained the general sanction of America, not to have found a ready preference with the
convention.

All this is admitted, it will perhaps be said; but does it follow, from an admission of numbers for
the measure of representation, or of slaves combined with free citizens as a ratio of taxation, that
slaves ought to be included in the numerical rule of representation? Slaves are considered as
property, not as persons. They ought therefore to be comprehended in estimates of taxation
which are founded on property, and to be excluded from representation which is regulated by a
census of persons. This is the objection, as I understand it, stated in its full force. I shall be
equally candid in stating the reasoning which may be offered on the opposite side.

'We subscribe to the doctrine,' might one of our Southern brethren observe, 'that representation
relates more immediately to persons, and taxation more immediately to property, and we join in
the application of this distinction to the case of our slaves. But we must deny the fact, that slaves
are considered merely as property, and in no respect whatever as persons. The true state of the
case is, that they partake of both these qualities: being considered by our laws, in some respects,
as persons, and in other respects as property. In being compelled to labor, not for himself, but for
a master; in being vendible by one master to another master; and in being subject at all times to
be restrained in his liberty and chastised in his body, by the capricious will of another — the
slave may appear to be degraded from the human rank, and classed with those irrational animals
which fall under the legal denomination of property. In being protected, on the other hand, in his


                                                                  250
 
                               


life and in his limbs, against the violence of all others, even the master of his labor and his
liberty; and in being punishable himself for all violence committed against others — the slave is
no less evidently regarded by the law as a member of the society, not as a part of the irrational
creation; as a moral person, not as a mere article of property. The federal Constitution, therefore,
decides with great propriety on the case of our slaves, when it views them in the mixed character
of persons and of property. This is in fact their true character. It is the character bestowed on
them by the laws under which they live; and it will not be denied, that these are the proper
criterion; because it is only under the pretext that the laws have transformed the negroes into
subjects of property, that a place is disputed them in the computation of numbers; and it is
admitted, that if the laws were to restore the rights which have been taken away, the negroes
could no longer be refused an equal share of representation with the other inhabitants.

“This question may be placed in another light. It is agreed on all sides, that numbers are the best
scale of wealth and taxation, as they are the only proper scale of representation. Would the
convention have been impartial or consistent, if they had rejected the slaves from the list of
inhabitants, when the shares of representation were to be calculated, and inserted them on the
lists when the tariff of contributions was to be adjusted? Could it be reasonably expected, that the
Southern States would concur in a system, which considered their slaves in some degree as men,
when burdens were to be imposed, but refused to consider them in the same light, when
advantages were to be conferred? Might not some surprise also be expressed, that those who
reproach the Southern States with the barbarous policy of considering as property a part of their
human brethren, should themselves contend, that the government to which all the States are to be
parties, ought to consider this unfortunate race more completely in the unnatural light of
property, than the very laws of which they complain?

“It may be replied, perhaps, that slaves are not included in the estimate of representatives in any
of the States possessing them. They neither vote themselves nor increase the votes of their
masters. Upon what principle, then, ought they to be taken into the federal estimate of
representation? In rejecting them altogether, the Constitution would, in this respect, have
followed the very laws which have been appealed to as the proper guide.

“This objection is repelled by a single observation. It is a fundamental principle of the proposed
Constitution, that as the aggregate number of representatives allotted to the several States is to be
determined by a federal rule, founded on the aggregate number of inhabitants, so the right of
choosing this allotted number in each State is to be exercised by such part of the inhabitants as
the State itself may designate. The qualifications on which the right of suffrage depend are not,
perhaps, the same in any two States. In some of the States the difference is very material. In
every State, a certain proportion of inhabitants are deprived of this right by the constitution of the
State, who will be included in the census by which the federal Constitution apportions the
representatives. In this point of view the Southern States might retort the complaint, by insisting
that the principle laid down by the convention required that no regard should be had to the policy
of particular States towards their own inhabitants; and consequently, that the slaves, as
inhabitants, should have been admitted into the census according to their full number, in like



                                                                  251
 
                               


manner with other inhabitants, who, by the policy of other States, are not admitted to all the
rights of citizens. A rigorous adherence, however, to this principle, is waived by those who
would be gainers by it. All that they ask is that equal moderation be shown on the other side. Let
the case of the slaves be considered, as it is in truth, a peculiar one. Let the compromising
expedient of the Constitution be mutually adopted, which regards them as inhabitants, but as
debased by servitude below the equal level of free inhabitants, which regards the slave as
divested of two fifths of the man.

“After all, may not another ground be taken on which this article of the Constitution will admit
of a still more ready defense? We have hitherto proceeded on the idea that representation related
to persons only, and not at all to property. But is it a just idea? Government is instituted no less
for protection of the property, than of the persons, of individuals. The one as well as the other,
therefore, may be considered as represented by those who are charged with the government.
Upon this principle it is, that in several of the States, and particularly in the State of New York,
one branch of the government is intended more especially to be the guardian of property, and is
accordingly elected by that part of the society which is most interested in this object of
government. In the federal Constitution, this policy does not prevail. The rights of property are
committed into the same hands with the personal rights. Some attention ought, therefore, to be
paid to property in the choice of those hands.

“For another reason, the votes allowed in the federal legislature to the people of each State, ought
to bear some proportion to the comparative wealth of the States. States have not, like individuals,
an influence over each other, arising from superior advantages of fortune. If the law allows an
opulent citizen but a single vote in the choice of his representative, the respect and consequence
which he derives from his fortunate situation very frequently guide the votes of others to the
objects of his choice; and through this imperceptible channel the rights of property are conveyed
into the public representation. A State possesses no such influence over other States. It is not
probable that the richest State in the Confederacy will ever influence the choice of a single
representative in any other State. Nor will the representatives of the larger and richer States
possess any other advantage in the federal legislature, over the representatives of other States,
than what may result from their superior number alone. As far, therefore, as their superior wealth
and weight may justly entitle them to any advantage, it ought to be secured to them by a superior
share of representation. The new Constitution is, in this respect, materially different from the
existing Confederation, as well as from that of the United Netherlands, and other similar
confederacies. In each of the latter, the efficacy of the federal resolutions depends on the
subsequent and voluntary resolutions of the states composing the union. Hence the states, though
possessing an equal vote in the public councils, have an unequal influence, corresponding with
the unequal importance of these subsequent and voluntary resolutions. Under the proposed
Constitution, the federal acts will take effect without the necessary intervention of the individual
States. They will depend merely on the majority of votes in the federal legislature, and
consequently each vote, whether proceeding from a larger or smaller State, or a State more or
less wealthy or powerful, will have an equal weight and efficacy: in the same manner as the
votes individually given in a State legislature, by the representatives of unequal counties or other



                                                                 252
 
                                


districts, have each a precise equality of value and effect; or if there be any difference in the case,
it proceeds from the difference in the personal character of the individual representative, rather
than from any regard to the extent of the district from which he comes.”

Such is the reasoning which an advocate for the Southern interests might employ on this subject;
and although it may appear to be a little strained in some points, yet, on the whole, I must
confess that it fully reconciles me to the scale of representation which the convention have
established.

In one respect, the establishment of a common measure for representation and taxation will have
a very salutary effect. As the accuracy of the census to be obtained by the Congress will
necessarily depend, in a considerable degree on the disposition, if not on the co-operation, of the
States, it is of great importance that the States should feel as little bias as possible, to swell or to
reduce the amount of their numbers. Were their share of representation alone to be governed by
this rule, they would have an interest in exaggerating their inhabitants. Were the rule to decide
their share of taxation alone, a contrary temptation would prevail. By extending the rule to both
objects, the States will have opposite interests, which will control and balance each other, and
produce the requisite impartiality.




                                                                     253
 
                               



Federalist No. 55 - The Total Number of the House of
Representatives
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Wednesday, February 13, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE number of which the House of Representatives is to consist, forms another and a very
interesting point of view, under which this branch of the federal legislature may be contemplated.
Scarce any article, indeed, in the whole Constitution seems to be rendered more worthy of
attention, by the weight of character and the apparent force of argument with which it has been
assailed. The charges exhibited against it are, first, that so small a number of representatives will
be an unsafe depositary of the public interests; secondly, that they will not possess a proper
knowledge of the local circumstances of their numerous constituents; thirdly, that they will be
taken from that class of citizens which will sympathize least with the feelings of the mass of the
people, and be most likely to aim at a permanent elevation of the few on the depression of the
many; fourthly, that defective as the number will be in the first instance, it will be more and more
disproportionate, by the increase of the people, and the obstacles which will prevent a
correspondent increase of the representatives.

In general it may be remarked on this subject, that no political problem is less susceptible of a
precise solution than that which relates to the number most convenient for a representative
legislature; nor is there any point on which the policy of the several States is more at variance,
whether we compare their legislative assemblies directly with each other, or consider the
proportions which they respectively bear to the number of their constituents. Passing over the
difference between the smallest and largest States, as Delaware, whose most numerous branch
consists of twenty-one representatives, and Massachusetts, where it amounts to between three
and four hundred, a very considerable difference is observable among States nearly equal in
population. The number of representatives in Pennsylvania is not more than one fifth of that in
the State last mentioned. New York, whose population is to that of South Carolina as six to five,
has little more than one third of the number of representatives. As great a disparity prevails
between the States of Georgia and Delaware or Rhode Island. In Pennsylvania, the
representatives do not bear a greater proportion to their constituents than of one for every four or
five thousand. In Rhode Island, they bear a proportion of at least one for every thousand. And
according to the constitution of Georgia, the proportion may be carried to one to every ten
electors; and must unavoidably far exceed the proportion in any of the other States.

Another general remark to be made is, that the ratio between the representatives and the people
ought not to be the same where the latter are very numerous as where they are very few. Were
the representatives in Virginia to be regulated by the standard in Rhode Island, they would, at
this time, amount to between four and five hundred; and twenty or thirty years hence, to a


                                                                 254
 
                               


thousand. On the other hand, the ratio of Pennsylvania, if applied to the State of Delaware, would
reduce the representative assembly of the latter to seven or eight members. Nothing can be more
fallacious than to found our political calculations on arithmetical principles. Sixty or seventy
men may be more properly trusted with a given degree of power than six or seven. But it does
not follow that six or seven hundred would be proportionably a better depositary. And if we
carry on the supposition to six or seven thousand, the whole reasoning ought to be reversed. The
truth is, that in all cases a certain number at least seems to be necessary to secure the benefits of
free consultation and discussion, and to guard against too easy a combination for improper
purposes; as, on the other hand, the number ought at most to be kept within a certain limit, in
order to avoid the confusion and intemperance of a multitude. In all very numerous assemblies,
of whatever character composed, passion never fails to wrest the sceptre from reason. Had every
Athenian citizen been a Socrates, every Athenian assembly would still have been a mob.

It is necessary also to recollect here the observations which were applied to the case of biennial
elections. For the same reason that the limited powers of the Congress, and the control of the
State legislatures, justify less frequent elections than the public safely might otherwise require,
the members of the Congress need be less numerous than if they possessed the whole power of
legislation, and were under no other than the ordinary restraints of other legislative bodies.

With these general ideas in our mind, let us weigh the objections which have been stated against
the number of members proposed for the House of Representatives. It is said, in the first place,
that so small a number cannot be safely trusted with so much power.

The number of which this branch of the legislature is to consist, at the outset of the government,
will be sixtyfive. Within three years a census is to be taken, when the number may be augmented
to one for every thirty thousand inhabitants; and within every successive period of ten years the
census is to be renewed, and augmentations may continue to be made under the above limitation.
It will not be thought an extravagant conjecture that the first census will, at the rate of one for
every thirty thousand, raise the number of representatives to at least one hundred. Estimating the
negroes in the proportion of three fifths, it can scarcely be doubted that the population of the
United States will by that time, if it does not already, amount to three millions. At the expiration
of twenty-five years, according to the computed rate of increase, the number of representatives
will amount to two hundred, and of fifty years, to four hundred. This is a number which, I
presume, will put an end to all fears arising from the smallness of the body. I take for granted
here what I shall, in answering the fourth objection, hereafter show, that the number of
representatives will be augmented from time to time in the manner provided by the Constitution.
On a contrary supposition, I should admit the objection to have very great weight indeed.

The true question to be decided then is, whether the smallness of the number, as a temporary
regulation, be dangerous to the public liberty? Whether sixty-five members for a few years, and a
hundred or two hundred for a few more, be a safe depositary for a limited and well-guarded
power of legislating for the United States? I must own that I could not give a negative answer to
this question, without first obliterating every impression which I have received with regard to the



                                                                  255
 
                               


present genius of the people of America, the spirit which actuates the State legislatures, and the
principles which are incorporated with the political character of every class of citizens I am
unable to conceive that the people of America, in their present temper, or under any
circumstances which can speedily happen, will choose, and every second year repeat the choice
of, sixty-five or a hundred men who would be disposed to form and pursue a scheme of tyranny
or treachery. I am unable to conceive that the State legislatures, which must feel so many
motives to watch, and which possess so many means of counteracting, the federal legislature,
would fail either to detect or to defeat a conspiracy of the latter against the liberties of their
common constituents. I am equally unable to conceive that there are at this time, or can be in any
short time, in the United States, any sixty-five or a hundred men capable of recommending
themselves to the choice of the people at large, who would either desire or dare, within the short
space of two years, to betray the solemn trust committed to them. What change of circumstances,
time, and a fuller population of our country may produce, requires a prophetic spirit to declare,
which makes no part of my pretensions. But judging from the circumstances now before us, and
from the probable state of them within a moderate period of time, I must pronounce that the
liberties of America cannot be unsafe in the number of hands proposed by the federal
Constitution.

From what quarter can the danger proceed? Are we afraid of foreign gold? If foreign gold could
so easily corrupt our federal rulers and enable them to ensnare and betray their constituents, how
has it happened that we are at this time a free and independent nation? The Congress which
conducted us through the Revolution was a less numerous body than their successors will be;
they were not chosen by, nor responsible to, their fellow citizens at large; though appointed from
year to year, and recallable at pleasure, they were generally continued for three years, and prior
to the ratification of the federal articles, for a still longer term. They held their consultations
always under the veil of secrecy; they had the sole transaction of our affairs with foreign nations;
through the whole course of the war they had the fate of their country more in their hands than it
is to be hoped will ever be the case with our future representatives; and from the greatness of the
prize at stake, and the eagerness of the party which lost it, it may well be supposed that the use of
other means than force would not have been scrupled. Yet we know by happy experience that the
public trust was not betrayed; nor has the purity of our public councils in this particular ever
suffered, even from the whispers of calumny.

Is the danger apprehended from the other branches of the federal government? But where are the
means to be found by the President, or the Senate, or both? Their emoluments of office, it is to be
presumed, will not, and without a previous corruption of the House of Representatives cannot,
more than suffice for very different purposes; their private fortunes, as they must all be American
citizens, cannot possibly be sources of danger. The only means, then, which they can possess,
will be in the dispensation of appointments. Is it here that suspicion rests her charge? Sometimes
we are told that this fund of corruption is to be exhausted by the President in subduing the virtue
of the Senate. Now, the fidelity of the other House is to be the victim. The improbability of such
a mercenary and perfidious combination of the several members of government, standing on as
different foundations as republican principles will well admit, and at the same time accountable



                                                                 256
 
                              


to the society over which they are placed, ought alone to quiet this apprehension. But,
fortunately, the Constitution has provided a still further safeguard. The members of the Congress
are rendered ineligible to any civil offices that may be created, or of which the emoluments may
be increased, during the term of their election. No offices therefore can be dealt out to the
existing members but such as may become vacant by ordinary casualties: and to suppose that
these would be sufficient to purchase the guardians of the people, selected by the people
themselves, is to renounce every rule by which events ought to be calculated, and to substitute an
indiscriminate and unbounded jealousy, with which all reasoning must be vain. The sincere
friends of liberty, who give themselves up to the extravagancies of this passion, are not aware of
the injury they do their own cause. As there is a degree of depravity in mankind which requires a
certain degree of circumspection and distrust, so there are other qualities in human nature which
justify a certain portion of esteem and confidence. Republican government presupposes the
existence of these qualities in a higher degree than any other form. Were the pictures which have
been drawn by the political jealousy of some among us faithful likenesses of the human
character, the inference would be, that there is not sufficient virtue among men for self-
government; and that nothing less than the chains of despotism can restrain them from destroying
and devouring one another.




                                                              257
 
                              



Federalist No. 56 - The Total Number of the House of
Representatives (continued)
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Saturday, February 16, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE second charge against the House of Representatives is, that it will be too small to possess a
due knowledge of the interests of its constituents.

As this objection evidently proceeds from a comparison of the proposed number of
representatives with the great extent of the United States, the number of their inhabitants, and the
diversity of their interests, without taking into view at the same time the circumstances which
will distinguish the Congress from other legislative bodies, the best answer that can be given to it
will be a brief explanation of these peculiarities.

It is a sound and important principle that the representative ought to be acquainted with the
interests and circumstances of his constituents. But this principle can extend no further than to
those circumstances and interests to which the authority and care of the representative relate. An
ignorance of a variety of minute and particular objects, which do not lie within the compass of
legislation, is consistent with every attribute necessary to a due performance of the legislative
trust. In determining the extent of information required in the exercise of a particular authority,
recourse then must be had to the objects within the purview of that authority.

What are to be the objects of federal legislation? Those which are of most importance, and which
seem most to require local knowledge, are commerce, taxation, and the militia.

A proper regulation of commerce requires much information, as has been elsewhere remarked;
but as far as this information relates to the laws and local situation of each individual State, a
very few representatives would be very sufficient vehicles of it to the federal councils.

Taxation will consist, in a great measure, of duties which will be involved in the regulation of
commerce. So far the preceding remark is applicable to this object. As far as it may consist of
internal collections, a more diffusive knowledge of the circumstances of the State may be
necessary. But will not this also be possessed in sufficient degree by a very few intelligent men,
diffusively elected within the State? Divide the largest State into ten or twelve districts, and it
will be found that there will be no peculiar local interests in either, which will not be within the
knowledge of the representative of the district. Besides this source of information, the laws of the
State, framed by representatives from every part of it, will be almost of themselves a sufficient
guide. In every State there have been made, and must continue to be made, regulations on this
subject which will, in many cases, leave little more to be done by the federal legislature, than to


                                                                 258
 
                              


review the different laws, and reduce them in one general act. A skillful individual in his closet
with all the local codes before him, might compile a law on some subjects of taxation for the
whole union, without any aid from oral information, and it may be expected that whenever
internal taxes may be necessary, and particularly in cases requiring uniformity throughout the
States, the more simple objects will be preferred. To be fully sensible of the facility which will
be given to this branch of federal legislation by the assistance of the State codes, we need only
suppose for a moment that this or any other State were divided into a number of parts, each
having and exercising within itself a power of local legislation. Is it not evident that a degree of
local information and preparatory labor would be found in the several volumes of their
proceedings, which would very much shorten the labors of the general legislature, and render a
much smaller number of members sufficient for it? The federal councils will derive great
advantage from another circumstance. The representatives of each State will not only bring with
them a considerable knowledge of its laws, and a local knowledge of their respective districts,
but will probably in all cases have been members, and may even at the very time be members, of
the State legislature, where all the local information and interests of the State are assembled, and
from whence they may easily be conveyed by a very few hands into the legislature of the United
States.

[The observations made on the subject of taxation apply with greater force to the case of the
militia. For however different the rules of discipline may be in different States, they are the same
throughout each particular State; and depend on circumstances which can differ but little in
different parts of the same State.]

[With regard to the regulation of the militia, there are scarcely any circumstances in reference to
which local knowledge can be said to be necessary. The general face of the country, whether
mountainous or level, most fit for the operations of infantry or cavalry, is almost the only
consideration of this nature that can occur. The art of war teaches general principles of
organization, movement, and discipline, which apply universally.]

The attentive reader will discern that the reasoning here used, to prove the sufficiency of a
moderate number of representatives, does not in any respect contradict what was urged on
another occasion with regard to the extensive information which the representatives ought to
possess, and the time that might be necessary for acquiring it. This information, so far as it may
relate to local objects, is rendered necessary and difficult, not by a difference of laws and local
circumstances within a single State, but of those among different States. Taking each State by
itself, its laws are the same, and its interests but little diversified. A few men, therefore, will
possess all the knowledge requisite for a proper representation of them. Were the interests and
affairs of each individual State perfectly simple and uniform, a knowledge of them in one part
would involve a knowledge of them in every other, and the whole State might be competently
represented by a single member taken from any part of it. On a comparison of the different States
together, we find a great dissimilarity in their laws, and in many other circumstances connected
with the objects of federal legislation, with all of which the federal representatives ought to have
some acquaintance. Whilst a few representatives, therefore, from each State, may bring with



                                                                 259
 
                               


them a due knowledge of their own State, every representative will have much information to
acquire concerning all the other States. The changes of time, as was formerly remarked, on the
comparative situation of the different States, will have an assimilating effect. The effect of time
on the internal affairs of the States, taken singly, will be just the contrary. At present some of the
States are little more than a society of husbandmen. Few of them have made much progress in
those branches of industry which give a variety and complexity to the affairs of a nation. These,
however, will in all of them be the fruits of a more advanced population, and will require, on the
part of each State, a fuller representation. The foresight of the convention has accordingly taken
care that the progress of population may be accompanied with a proper increase of the
representative branch of the government.

The experience of Great Britain, which presents to mankind so many political lessons, both of
the monitory and exemplary kind, and which has been frequently consulted in the course of these
inquiries, corroborates the result of the reflections which we have just made. The number of
inhabitants in the two kingdoms of England and Scotland cannot be stated at less than eight
millions. The representatives of these eight millions in the House of Commons amount to five
hundred and fifty-eight. Of this number, one ninth are elected by three hundred and sixty-four
persons, and one half, by five thousand seven hundred and twenty-three persons.1 It cannot be
supposed that the half thus elected, and who do not even reside among the people at large, can
add any thing either to the security of the people against the government, or to the knowledge of
their circumstances and interests in the legislative councils. On the contrary, it is notorious, that
they are more frequently the representatives and instruments of the executive magistrate, than the
guardians and advocates of the popular rights. They might therefore, with great propriety, be
considered as something more than a mere deduction from the real representatives of the nation.
We will, however, consider them in this light alone, and will not extend the deduction to a
considerable number of others, who do not reside among their constituents, are very faintly
connected with them, and have very little particular knowledge of their affairs. With all these
concessions, two hundred and seventy-nine persons only will be the depository of the safety,
interest, and happiness of eight millions that is to say, there will be one representative only to
maintain the rights and explain the situation of twenty-eight thousand six hundred and seventy
constituents, in an assembly exposed to the whole force of executive influence, and extending its
authority to every object of legislation within a nation whose affairs are in the highest degree
diversified and complicated. Yet it is very certain, not only that a valuable portion of freedom
has been preserved under all these circumstances, but that the defects in the British code are
chargeable, in a very small proportion, on the ignorance of the legislature concerning the
circumstances of the people. Allowing to this case the weight which is due to it, and comparing it
with that of the House of Representatives as above explained it seems to give the fullest
assurance, that a representative for every thirty thousand inhabitants will render the latter both a
safe and competent guardian of the interests which will be confided to it.




                                                                   260
 
                              



Federalist No. 57 - The Alleged Tendency of the New Plan to Elevate
the Few at the Expense of the Many Considered in Connection with
Representation
Written by James Madison
New York Packet, Tuesday, February 19, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE third charge against the House of Representatives is, that it will be taken from that class of
citizens which will have least sympathy with the mass of the people, and be most likely to aim at
an ambitious sacrifice of the many to the aggrandizement of the few.

Of all the objections which have been framed against the federal Constitution, this is perhaps the
most extraordinary. Whilst the objection itself is levelled against a pretended oligarchy, the
principle of it strikes at the very root of republican government.

The aim of every political constitution is, or ought to be, first to obtain for rulers men who
possess most wisdom to discern, and most virtue to pursue, the common good of the society; and
in the next place, to take the most effectual precautions for keeping them virtuous whilst they
continue to hold their public trust. The elective mode of obtaining rulers is the characteristic
policy of republican government. The means relied on in this form of government for preventing
their degeneracy are numerous and various. The most effectual one, is such a limitation of the
term of appointments as will maintain a proper responsibility to the people.

Let me now ask what circumstance there is in the constitution of the House of Representatives
that violates the principles of republican government, or favors the elevation of the few on the
ruins of the many? Let me ask whether every circumstance is not, on the contrary, strictly
conformable to these principles, and scrupulously impartial to the rights and pretensions of every
class and description of citizens?

Who are to be the electors of the federal representatives? Not the rich, more than the poor; not
the learned, more than the ignorant; not the haughty heirs of distinguished names, more than the
humble sons of obscurity and unpropitious fortune. The electors are to be the great body of the
people of the United States. They are to be the same who exercise the right in every State of
electing the corresponding branch of the legislature of the State.

Who are to be the objects of popular choice? Every citizen whose merit may recommend him to
the esteem and confidence of his country. No qualification of wealth, of birth, of religious faith,
or of civil profession is permitted to fetter the judgement or disappoint the inclination of the
people.



                                                                 261
 
                              



If we consider the situation of the men on whom the free suffrages of their fellow-citizens may
confer the representative trust, we shall find it involving every security which can be devised or
desired for their fidelity to their constituents.

In the first place, as they will have been distinguished by the preference of their fellow-citizens,
we are to presume that in general they will be somewhat distinguished also by those qualities
which entitle them to it, and which promise a sincere and scrupulous regard to the nature of their
engagements.

In the second place, they will enter into the public service under circumstances which cannot fail
to produce a temporary affection at least to their constituents. There is in every breast a
sensibility to marks of honor, of favor, of esteem, and of confidence, which, apart from all
considerations of interest, is some pledge for grateful and benevolent returns. Ingratitude is a
common topic of declamation against human nature; and it must be confessed that instances of it
are but too frequent and flagrant, both in public and in private life. But the universal and extreme
indignation which it inspires is itself a proof of the energy and prevalence of the contrary
sentiment.

In the third place, those ties which bind the representative to his constituents are strengthened by
motives of a more selfish nature. His pride and vanity attach him to a form of government which
favors his pretensions and gives him a share in its honors and distinctions. Whatever hopes or
projects might be entertained by a few aspiring characters, it must generally happen that a great
proportion of the men deriving their advancement from their influence with the people, would
have more to hope from a preservation of the favor, than from innovations in the government
subversive of the authority of the people.

All these securities, however, would be found very insufficient without the restraint of frequent
elections. Hence, in the fourth place, the House of Representatives is so constituted as to support
in the members an habitual recollection of their dependence on the people. Before the sentiments
impressed on their minds by the mode of their elevation can be effaced by the exercise of power,
they will be compelled to anticipate the moment when their power is to cease, when their
exercise of it is to be reviewed, and when they must descend to the level from which they were
raised; there forever to remain unless a faithful discharge of their trust shall have established
their title to a renewal of it.

I will add, as a fifth circumstance in the situation of the House of Representatives, restraining
them from oppressive measures, that they can make no law which will not have its full operation
on themselves and their friends, as well as on the great mass of the society. This has always been
deemed one of the strongest bonds by which human policy can connect the rulers and the people
together. It creates between them that communion of interests and sympathy of sentiments, of
which few governments have furnished examples; but without which every government
degenerates into tyranny. If it be asked, what is to restrain the House of Representatives from



                                                                 262
 
                                


making legal discriminations in favor of themselves and a particular class of the society? I
answer: the genius of the whole system; the nature of just and constitutional laws; and above all,
the vigilant and manly spirit which actuates the people of America — a spirit which nourishes
freedom, and in return is nourished by it.

If this spirit shall ever be so far debased as to tolerate a law not obligatory on the legislature, as
well as on the people, the people will be prepared to tolerate any thing but liberty.

Such will be the relation between the House of Representatives and their constituents. Duty,
gratitude, interest, ambition itself, are the chords by which they will be bound to fidelity and
sympathy with the great mass of the people. It is possible that these may all be insufficient to
control the caprice and wickedness of man. But are they not all that government will admit, and
that human prudence can devise? Are they not the genuine and the characteristic means by which
republican government provides for the liberty and happiness of the people? Are they not the
identical means on which every State government in the Union relies for the attainment of these
important ends? What then are we to understand by the objection which this paper has
combated? What are we to say to the men who profess the most flaming zeal for republican
government, yet boldly impeach the fundamental principle of it; who pretend to be champions
for the right and the capacity of the people to choose their own rulers, yet maintain that they will
prefer those only who will immediately and infallibly betray the trust committed to them?

Were the objection to be read by one who had not seen the mode prescribed by the Constitution
for the choice of representatives, he could suppose nothing less than that some unreasonable
qualification of property was annexed to the right of suffrage; or that the right of eligibility was
limited to persons of particular families or fortunes; or at least that the mode prescribed by the
State constitutions was in some respect or other, very grossly departed from. We have seen how
far such a supposition would err, as to the two first points. Nor would it, in fact, be less
erroneous as to the last. The only difference discoverable between the two cases is, that each
representative of the United States will be elected by five or six thousand citizens; whilst in the
individual States, the election of a representative is left to about as many hundreds. Will it be
pretended that this difference is sufficient to justify an attachment to the State governments, and
an abhorrence to the federal government? If this be the point on which the objection turns, it
deserves to be examined.

Is it supported by reason? This cannot be said, without maintaining that five or six thousand
citizens are less capable of choosing a fit representative, or more liable to be corrupted by an
unfit one, than five or six hundred. Reason, on the contrary, assures us, that as in so great a
number a fit representative would be most likely to be found, so the choice would be less likely
to be diverted from him by the intrigues of the ambitious or the ambitious or the bribes of the
rich.

Is the consequence from this doctrine admissible? If we say that five or six hundred citizens are
as many as can jointly exercise their right of suffrage, must we not deprive the people of the



                                                                    263
 
                               


immediate choice of their public servants, in every instance where the administration of the
government does not require as many of them as will amount to one for that number of citizens?

Is the doctrine warranted by facts? It was shown in the last paper, that the real representation in
the British House of Commons very little exceeds the proportion of one for every thirty thousand
inhabitants. Besides a variety of powerful causes not existing here, and which favor in that
country the pretensions of rank and wealth, no person is eligible as a representative of a county,
unless he possess real estate of the clear value of six hundred pounds sterling per year; nor of a
city or borough, unless he possess a like estate of half that annual value. To this qualification on
the part of the county representatives is added another on the part of the county electors, which
restrains the right of suffrage to persons having a freehold estate of the annual value of more than
twenty pounds sterling, according to the present rate of money. Notwithstanding these
unfavorable circumstances, and notwithstanding some very unequal laws in the British code, it
cannot be said that the representatives of the nation have elevated the few on the ruins of the
many.

But we need not resort to foreign experience on this subject. Our own is explicit and decisive.
The districts in New Hampshire in which the senators are chosen immediately by the people, are
nearly as large as will be necessary for her representatives in the Congress. Those of
Massachusetts are larger than will be necessary for that purpose; and those of New York still
more so. In the last State the members of Assembly for the cities and counties of New York and
Albany are elected by very nearly as many voters as will be entitled to a representative in the
Congress, calculating on the number of sixty-five representatives only. It makes no difference
that in these senatorial districts and counties a number of representatives are voted for by each
elector at the same time. If the same electors at the same time are capable of choosing four or
five representatives, they cannot be incapable of choosing one. Pennsylvania is an additional
example. Some of her counties, which elect her State representatives, are almost as large as her
districts will be by which her federal representatives will be elected. The city of Philadelphia is
supposed to contain between fifty and sixty thousand souls. It will therefore form nearly two
districts for the choice of federal representatives. It forms, however, but one county, in which
every elector votes for each of its representatives in the State legislature. And what may appear
to be still more directly to our purpose, the whole city actually elects a single member for the
executive council. This is the case in all the other counties of the State.

Are not these facts the most satisfactory proofs of the fallacy which has been employed against
the branch of the federal government under consideration? Has it appeared on trial that the
senators of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and New York, or the executive council of
Pennsylvania, or the members of the Assembly in the two last States, have betrayed any peculiar
disposition to sacrifice the many to the few, or are in any respect less worthy of their places than
the representatives and magistrates appointed in other States by very small divisions of the
people?




                                                                 264
 
                              


But there are cases of a stronger complexion than any which I have yet quoted. One branch of
the legislature of Connecticut is so constituted that each member of it is elected by the whole
State. So is the governor of that State, of Massachusetts, and of this State, and the president of
New Hampshire. I leave every man to decide whether the result of any one of these experiments
can be said to countenance a suspicion, that a diffusive mode of choosing representatives of the
people tends to elevate traitors and to undermine the public liberty.




                                                                265
 
                                



Federalist No. 58 - Objection That The Number of Members Will
Not Be Augmented as the Progress of Population Demands
Considered
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Wednesday, February 20, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE remaining charge against the House of Representatives, which I am to examine, is
grounded on a supposition that the number of members will not be augmented from time to time,
as the progress of population may demand.

It has been admitted, that this objection, if well supported, would have great weight. The
following observations will show that, like most other objections against the Constitution, it can
only proceed from a partial view of the subject, or from a jealousy which discolors and disfigures
every object which is beheld.

1. Those who urge the objection seem not to have recollected that the federal Constitution will
not suffer by a comparison with the State constitutions, in the security provided for a gradual
augmentation of the number of representatives. The number which is to prevail in the first
instance is declared to be temporary. Its duration is limited to the short term of three years.

Within every successive term of ten years a census of inhabitants is to be repeated. The
unequivocal objects of these regulations are, first, to readjust, from time to time, the
apportionment of representatives to the number of inhabitants, under the single exception that
each State shall have one representative at least; secondly, to augment the number of
representatives at the same periods, under the sole limitation that the whole number shall not
exceed one for every thirty thousand inhabitants. If we review the constitutions of the several
States, we shall find that some of them contain no determinate regulations on this subject, that
others correspond pretty much on this point with the federal Constitution, and that the most
effectual security in any of them is resolvable into a mere directory provision.

2. As far as experience has taken place on this subject, a gradual increase of representatives
under the State constitutions has at least kept pace with that of the constituents, and it appears
that the former have been as ready to concur in such measures as the latter have been to call for
them.

3. There is a peculiarity in the federal Constitution which insures a watchful attention in a
majority both of the people and of their representatives to a constitutional augmentation of the
latter. The peculiarity lies in this, that one branch of the legislature is a representation of citizens,



                                                                     266
 
                              


the other of the States: in the former, consequently, the larger States will have most weight; in
the latter, the advantage will be in favor of the smaller States. From this circumstance it may
with certainty be inferred that the larger States will be strenuous advocates for increasing the
number and weight of that part of the legislature in which their influence predominates. And it so
happens that four only of the largest will have a majority of the whole votes in the House of
Representatives. Should the representatives or people, therefore, of the smaller States oppose at
any time a reasonable addition of members, a coalition of a very few States will be sufficient to
overrule the opposition; a coalition which, notwithstanding the rivalship and local prejudices
which might prevent it on ordinary occasions, would not fail to take place, when not merely
prompted by common interest, but justified by equity and the principles of the Constitution.

It may be alleged, perhaps, that the Senate would be prompted by like motives to an adverse
coalition; and as their concurrence would be indispensable, the just and constitutional views of
the other branch might be defeated. This is the difficulty which has probably created the most
serious apprehensions in the jealous friends of a numerous representation. Fortunately it is
among the difficulties which, existing only in appearance, vanish on a close and accurate
inspection. The following reflections will, if I mistake not, be admitted to be conclusive and
satisfactory on this point.

Notwithstanding the equal authority which will subsist between the two houses on all legislative
subjects, except the originating of money bills, it cannot be doubted that the House, composed of
the greater number of members, when supported by the more powerful States, and speaking the
known and determined sense of a majority of the people, will have no small advantage in a
question depending on the comparative firmness of the two houses.

This advantage must be increased by the consciousness, felt by the same side of being supported
in its demands by right, by reason, and by the Constitution; and the consciousness, on the
opposite side, of contending against the force of all these solemn considerations.

It is farther to be considered, that in the gradation between the smallest and largest States, there
are several, which, though most likely in general to arrange themselves among the former are too
little removed in extent and population from the latter, to second an opposition to their just and
legitimate pretensions. Hence it is by no means certain that a majority of votes, even in the
Senate, would be unfriendly to proper augmentations in the number of representatives.

It will not be looking too far to add, that the senators from all the new States may be gained over
to the just views of the House of Representatives, by an expedient too obvious to be overlooked.
As these States will, for a great length of time, advance in population with peculiar rapidity, they
will be interested in frequent reapportionments of the representatives to the number of
inhabitants. The large States, therefore, who will prevail in the House of Representatives, will
have nothing to do but to make reapportionments and augmentations mutually conditions of each
other; and the senators from all the most growing States will be bound to contend for the latter,
by the interest which their States will feel in the former.



                                                                 267
 
                               



These considerations seem to afford ample security on this subject, and ought alone to satisfy all
the doubts and fears which have been indulged with regard to it. Admitting, however, that they
should all be insufficient to subdue the unjust policy of the smaller States, or their predominant
influence in the councils of the Senate, a constitutional and infallible resource still remains with
the larger States, by which they will be able at all times to accomplish their just purposes. The
House of Representatives cannot only refuse, but they alone can propose, the supplies requisite
for the support of government. They, in a word, hold the purse — that powerful instrument by
which we behold, in the history of the British Constitution, an infant and humble representation
of the people gradually enlarging the sphere of its activity and importance, and finally reducing,
as far as it seems to have wished, all the overgrown prerogatives of the other branches of the
government. This power over the purse may, in fact, be regarded as the most complete and
effectual weapon with which any constitution can arm the immediate representatives of the
people, for obtaining a redress of every grievance, and for carrying into effect every just and
salutary measure.

But will not the House of Representatives be as much interested as the Senate in maintaining the
government in its proper functions, and will they not therefore be unwilling to stake its existence
or its reputation on the pliancy of the Senate? Or, if such a trial of firmness between the two
branches were hazarded, would not the one be as likely first to yield as the other? These
questions will create no difficulty with those who reflect that in all cases the smaller the number,
and the more permanent and conspicuous the station, of men in power, the stronger must be the
interest which they will individually feel in whatever concerns the government. Those who
represent the dignity of their country in the eyes of other nations, will be particularly sensible to
every prospect of public danger, or of dishonorable stagnation in public affairs. To those causes
we are to ascribe the continual triumph of the British House of Commons over the other branches
of the government, whenever the engine of a money bill has been employed. An absolute
inflexibility on the side of the latter, although it could not have failed to involve every
department of the state in the general confusion, has neither been apprehended nor experienced.
The utmost degree of firmness that can be displayed by the federal Senate or President, will not
be more than equal to a resistance in which they will be supported by constitutional and patriotic
principles.

In this review of the Constitution of the House of Representatives, I have passed over the
circumstances of economy, which, in the present state of affairs, might have had some effect in
lessening the temporary number of representatives, and a disregard of which would probably
have been as rich a theme of declamation against the Constitution as has been shown by the
smallness of the number proposed. I omit also any remarks on the difficulty which might be
found, under present circumstances, in engaging in the federal service a large number of such
characters as the people will probably elect. One observation, however, I must be permitted to
add on this subject as claiming, in my judgment, a very serious attention. It is, that in all
legislative assemblies the greater the number composing them may be, the fewer will be the men
who will in fact direct their proceedings. In the first place, the more numerous an assembly may



                                                                 268
 
                              


be, of whatever characters composed, the greater is known to be the ascendency of passion over
reason. In the next place, the larger the number, the greater will be the proportion of members of
limited information and of weak capacities. Now, it is precisely on characters of this description
that the eloquence and address of the few are known to act with all their force. In the ancient
republics, where the whole body of the people assembled in person, a single orator, or an artful
statesman, was generally seen to rule with as complete a sway as if a sceptre had been placed in
his single hand. On the same principle, the more multitudinous a representative assembly may be
rendered, the more it will partake of the infirmities incident to collective meetings of the people.
Ignorance will be the dupe of cunning, and passion the slave of sophistry and declamation. The
people can never err more than in supposing that by multiplying their representatives beyond a
certain limit, they strengthen the barrier against the government of a few. Experience will forever
admonish them that, on the contrary, after securing a sufficient number for the purposes of
safety, of local information, and of diffusive sympathy with the whole society, they will
counteract their own views by every addition to their representatives. The countenance of the
government may become more democratic, but the soul that animates it will be more oligarchic.
The machine will be enlarged, but the fewer, and often the more secret, will be the springs by
which its motions are directed.

As connected with the objection against the number of representatives, may properly be here
noticed, that which has been suggested against the number made competent for legislative
business. It has been said that more than a majority ought to have been required for a quorum;
and in particular cases, if not in all, more than a majority of a quorum for a decision. That some
advantages might have resulted from such a precaution, cannot be denied. It might have been an
additional shield to some particular interests, and another obstacle generally to hasty and partial
measures. But these considerations are outweighed by the inconveniences in the opposite scale.
In all cases where justice or the general good might require new laws to be passed, or active
measures to be pursued, the fundamental principle of free government would be reversed. It
would be no longer the majority that would rule: the power would be transferred to the minority.
Were the defensive privilege limited to particular cases, an interested minority might take
advantage of it to screen themselves from equitable sacrifices to the general weal, or, in
particular emergencies, to extort unreasonable indulgences. Lastly, it would facilitate and foster
the baneful practice of secessions; a practice which has shown itself even in States where a
majority only is required; a practice subversive of all the principles of order and regular
government; a practice which leads more directly to public convulsions, and the ruin of popular
governments, than any other which has yet been displayed among us.




                                                                 269
 
                               



Federalist No. 59 - Concerning the Power of Congress to Regulate
the Election of Members
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Friday, February 22, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE natural order of the subject leads us to consider, in this place, that provision of the
Constitution which authorizes the national legislature to regulate, in the last resort, the election of
its own members. It is in these words: “The times, places, and manner of holding elections for
senators and representatives shall be prescribed in each State by the legislature thereof; but the
Congress may, at any time, by law, make or alter such regulations, except as to the places of
choosing senators.” This provision has not only been declaimed against by those who condemn
the Constitution in the gross, but it has been censured by those who have objected with less
latitude and greater moderation; and, in one instance it has been thought exceptionable by a
gentleman who has declared himself the advocate of every other part of the system.

I am greatly mistaken, notwithstanding, if there be any article in the whole plan more completely
defensible than this. Its propriety rests upon the evidence of this plain proposition, that every
government ought to contain in itself the means of its own preservation. Every just reasoner will,
at first sight, approve an adherence to this rule, in the work of the convention; and will
disapprove every deviation from it which may not appear to have been dictated by the necessity
of incorporating into the work some particular ingredient, with which a rigid conformity to the
rule was incompatible. Even in this case, though he may acquiesce in the necessity, yet he will
not cease to regard and to regret a departure from so fundamental a principle, as a portion of
imperfection in the system which may prove the seed of future weakness, and perhaps anarchy.

It will not be alleged, that an election law could have been framed and inserted in the
Constitution, which would have been always applicable to every probable change in the situation
of the country; and it will therefore not be denied, that a discretionary power over elections ought
to exist somewhere. It will, I presume, be as readily conceded, that there were only three ways in
which this power could have been reasonably modified and disposed: that it must either have
been lodged wholly in the national legislature, or wholly in the State legislatures, or primarily in
the latter and ultimately in the former. The last mode has, with reason, been preferred by the
convention. They have submitted the regulation of elections for the federal government, in the
first instance, to the local administrations; which, in ordinary cases, and when no improper views
prevail, may be both more convenient and more satisfactory; but they have reserved to the
national authority a right to interpose, whenever extraordinary circumstances might render that
interposition necessary to its safety.




                                                                   270
 
                                


Nothing can be more evident, than that an exclusive power of regulating elections for the
national government, in the hands of the State legislatures, would leave the existence of the
Union entirely at their mercy. They could at any moment annihilate it, by neglecting to provide
for the choice of persons to administer its affairs. It is to little purpose to say, that a neglect or
omission of this kind would not be likely to take place. The constitutional possibility of the thing,
without an equivalent for the risk, is an unanswerable objection. Nor has any satisfactory reason
been yet assigned for incurring that risk. The extravagant surmises of a distempered jealousy can
never be dignified with that character. If we are in a humor to presume abuses of power, it is as
fair to presume them on the part of the State governments as on the part of the general
government. And as it is more consonant to the rules of a just theory, to trust the Union with the
care of its own existence, than to transfer that care to any other hands, if abuses of power are to
be hazarded on the one side or on the other, it is more rational to hazard them where the power
would naturally be placed, than where it would unnaturally be placed.

Suppose an article had been introduced into the Constitution, empowering the United States to
regulate the elections for the particular States, would any man have hesitated to condemn it, both
as an unwarrantable transposition of power, and as a premeditated engine for the destruction of
the State governments? The violation of principle, in this case, would have required no comment;
and, to an unbiased observer, it will not be less apparent in the project of subjecting the existence
of the national government, in a similar respect, to the pleasure of the State governments. An
impartial view of the matter cannot fail to result in a conviction, that each, as far as possible,
ought to depend on itself for its own preservation.

As an objection to this position, it may be remarked that the constitution of the national Senate
would involve, in its full extent, the danger which it is suggested might flow from an exclusive
power in the State legislatures to regulate the federal elections. It may be alleged, that by
declining the appointment of Senators, they might at any time give a fatal blow to the Union; and
from this it may be inferred, that as its existence would be thus rendered dependent upon them in
so essential a point, there can be no objection to intrusting them with it in the particular case
under consideration. The interest of each State, it may be added, to maintain its representation in
the national councils, would be a complete security against an abuse of the trust.

This argument, though specious, will not, upon examination, be found solid. It is certainly true
that the State legislatures, by forbearing the appointment of senators, may destroy the national
government. But it will not follow that, because they have a power to do this in one instance,
they ought to have it in every other. There are cases in which the pernicious tendency of such a
power may be far more decisive, without any motive equally cogent with that which must have
regulated the conduct of the convention in respect to the formation of the Senate, to recommend
their admission into the system. So far as that construction may expose the Union to the
possibility of injury from the State legislatures, it is an evil; but it is an evil which could not have
been avoided without excluding the States, in their political capacities, wholly from a place in
the organization of the national government. If this had been done, it would doubtless have been
interpreted into an entire dereliction of the federal principle; and would certainly have deprived



                                                                    271
 
                               


the State governments of that absolute safeguard which they will enjoy under this provision. But
however wise it may have been to have submitted in this instance to an inconvenience, for the
attainment of a necessary advantage or a greater good, no inference can be drawn from thence to
favor an accumulation of the evil, where no necessity urges, nor any greater good invites.

It may be easily discerned also that the national government would run a much greater risk from
a power in the State legislatures over the elections of its House of Representatives, than from
their power of appointing the members of its Senate. The senators are to be chosen for the period
of six years; there is to be a rotation, by which the seats of a third part of them are to be vacated
and replenished every two years; and no State is to be entitled to more than two senators; a
quorum of the body is to consist of sixteen members. The joint result of these circumstances
would be, that a temporary combination of a few States to intermit the appointment of senators,
could neither annul the existence nor impair the activity of the body; and it is not from a general
and permanent combination of the States that we can have any thing to fear. The first might
proceed from sinister designs in the leading members of a few of the State legislatures; the last
would suppose a fixed and rooted disaffection in the great body of the people, which will either
never exist at all, or will, in all probability, proceed from an experience of the inaptitude of the
general government to the advancement of their happiness — in which event no good citizen
could desire its continuance.

But with regard to the federal House of Representatives, there is intended to be a general election
of members once in two years. If the State legislatures were to be invested with an exclusive
power of regulating these elections, every period of making them would be a delicate crisis in the
national situation, which might issue in a dissolution of the Union, if the leaders of a few of the
most important States should have entered into a previous conspiracy to prevent an election.

I shall not deny, that there is a degree of weight in the observation, that the interests of each
State, to be represented in the federal councils, will be a security against the abuse of a power
over its elections in the hands of the State legislatures. But the security will not be considered as
complete, by those who attend to the force of an obvious distinction between the interest of the
people in the public felicity, and the interest of their local rulers in the power and consequence of
their offices. The people of America may be warmly attached to the government of the Union, at
times when the particular rulers of particular States, stimulated by the natural rivalship of power,
and by the hopes of personal aggrandizement, and supported by a strong faction in each of those
States, may be in a very opposite temper. This diversity of sentiment between a majority of the
people, and the individuals who have the greatest credit in their councils, is exemplified in some
of the States at the present moment, on the present question. The scheme of separate
confederacies, which will always nultiply the chances of ambition, will be a never failing bait to
all such influential characters in the State administrations as are capable of preferring their own
emolument and advancement to the public weal. With so effectual a weapon in their hands as the
exclusive power of regulating elections for the national government, a combination of a few such
men, in a few of the most considerable States, where the temptation will always be the strongest,
might accomplish the destruction of the Union, by seizing the opportunity of some casual



                                                                  272
 
                              


dissatisfaction among the people (and which perhaps they may themselves have excited), to
discontinue the choice of members for the federal House of Representatives. It ought never to be
forgotten, that a firm union of this country, under an efficient government, will probably be an
increasing object of jealousy to more than one nation of Europe; and that enterprises to subvert it
will sometimes originate in the intrigues of foreign powers, and will seldom fail to be patronized
and abetted by some of them. Its preservation, therefore ought in no case that can be avoided, to
be committed to the guardianship of any but those whose situation will uniformly beget an
immediate interest in the faithful and vigilant performance of the trust.




                                                                273
 
                               



Federalist No. 60 - Concerning the Power of Congress to Regulate
the Election of Members (continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Saturday, February 23, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

WE HAVE seen, that an uncontrollable power over the elections to the federal government could
not, without hazard, be committed to the State legislatures. Let us now see, what would be the
danger on the other side; that is, from confiding the ultimate right of regulating its own elections
to the Union itself. It is not pretended, that this right would ever be used for the exclusion of any
State from its share in the representation. The interest of all would, in this respect at least, be the
security of all. But it is alleged, that it might be employed in such a manner as to promote the
election of some favorite class of men in exclusion of others, by confining the places of election
to particular districts, and rendering it impracticable to the citizens at large to partake in the
choice. Of all chimerical suppositions, this seems to be the most chimerical. On the one hand, no
rational calculation of probabilities would lead us to imagine that the disposition which a conduct
so violent and extraordinary would imply, could ever find its way into the national councils; and
on the other, it may be concluded with certainty, that if so improper a spirit should ever gain
admittance into them, it would display itself in a form altogether different and far more decisive.

The improbability of the attempt may be satisfactorily inferred from this single reflection, that it
could never be made without causing an immediate revolt of the great body of the people,
headed and directed by the State governments. It is not difficult to conceive that this
characteristic right of freedom may, in certain turbulent and factious seasons, be violated, in
respect to a particular class of citizens, by a victorious and overbearing majority; but that so
fundamental a privilege, in a country so situated and enlightened, should be invaded to the
prejudice of the great mass of the people, by the deliberate policy of the government, without
occasioning a popular revolution, is altogether inconceivable and incredible.

In addition to this general reflection, there are considerations of a more precise nature, which
forbid all apprehension on the subject. The dissimilarity in the ingredients which will compose
the national government, and still more in the manner in which they will be brought into action
in its various branches, must form a powerful obstacle to a concert of views in any partial
scheme of elections. There is sufficient diversity in the state of property, in the genius, manners,
and habits of the people of the different parts of the Union, to occasion a material diversity of
disposition in their representatives towards the different ranks and conditions in society. And
though an intimate intercourse under the same government will promote a gradual assimilation in
some of these respects, yet there are causes, as well physical as moral, which may, in a greater or
less degree, permanently nourish different propensities and inclinations in this respect. But the
circumstance which will be likely to have the greatest influence in the matter, will be the


                                                                   274
 
                               


dissimilar modes of constituting the several component parts of the government. The House of
Representatives being to be elected immediately by the people, the Senate by the State
legislatures, the President by electors chosen for that purpose by the people, there would be little
probability of a common interest to cement these different branches in a predilection for any
particular class of electors.

As to the Senate, it is impossible that any regulation of “time and manner,” which is all that is
proposed to be submitted to the national government in respect to that body, can affect the spirit
which will direct the choice of its members. The collective sense of the State legislatures can
never be influenced by extraneous circumstances of that sort; a consideration which alone ought
to satisfy us that the discrimination apprehended would never be attempted. For what inducement
could the Senate have to concur in a preference in which itself would not be included? Or to
what purpose would it be established, in reference to one branch of the legislature, if it could not
be extended to the other? The composition of the one would in this case counteract that of the
other. And we can never suppose that it would embrace the appointments to the Senate, unless
we can at the same time suppose the voluntary co-operation of the State legislatures. If we make
the latter supposition, it then becomes immaterial where the power in question is placed —
whether in their hands or in those of the Union.

But what is to be the object of this capricious partiality in the national councils? Is it to be
exercised in a discrimination between the different departments of industry, or between the
different kinds of property, or between the different degrees of property? Will it lean in favor of
the landed interest, or the moneyed interest, or the mercantile interest, or the manufacturing
interest? Or, to speak in the fashionable language of the adversaries to the Constitution, will it
court the elevation of “the wealthy and the well-born,” to the exclusion and debasement of all the
rest of the society?

If this partiality is to be exerted in favor of those who are concerned in any particular description
of industry or property, I presume it will readily be admitted, that the competition for it will lie
between landed men and merchants. And I scruple not to affirm, that it is infinitely less likely
that either of them should gain an ascendant in the national councils, than that the one or the
other of them should predominate in all the local councils. The inference will be, that a conduct
tending to give an undue preference to either is much less to be dreaded from the former than
from the latter.

The several States are in various degrees addicted to agriculture and commerce. In most, if not
all of them, agriculture is predominant. In a few of them, however, commerce nearly divides its
empire, and in most of them has a considerable share of influence. In proportion as either
prevails, it will be conveyed into the national representation; and for the very reason, that this
will be an emanation from a greater variety of interests, and in much more various proportions,
than are to be found in any single State, it will be much less apt to espouse either of them with a
decided partiality, than the representation of any single State.




                                                                  275
 
                               


In a country consisting chiefly of the cultivators of land, where the rules of an equal
representation obtain, the landed interest must, upon the whole, preponderate in the government.
As long as this interest prevails in most of the State legislatures, so long it must maintain a
correspondent superiority in the national Senate, which will generally be a faithful copy of the
majorities of those assemblies. It cannot therefore be presumed, that a sacrifice of the landed to
the mercantile class will ever be a favorite object of this branch of the federal legislature. In
applying thus particularly to the Senate a general observation suggested by the situation of the
country, I am governed by the consideration, that the credulous votaries of State power cannot,
upon their own principles, suspect, that the State legislatures would be warped from their duty by
any external influence. But in reality the same situation must have the same effect, in the
primative composition at least of the federal House of Representatives: an improper bias towards
the mercantile class is as little to be expected from this quarter as from the other.

In order, perhaps, to give countenance to the objection at any rate, it may be asked, is there not
danger of an opposite bias in the national government, which may dispose it to endeavor to
secure a monopoly of the federal administration to the landed class? As there is little likelihood
that the supposition of such a bias will have any terrors for those who would be immediately
injured by it, a labored answer to this question will be dispensed with. It will be sufficient to
remark, first, that for the reasons elsewhere assigned, it is less likely that any decided partiality
should prevail in the councils of the Union than in those of any of its members. Secondly, that
there would be no temptation to violate the Constitution in favor of the landed class, because that
class would, in the natural course of things, enjoy as great a preponderancy as itself could desire.
And thirdly, that men accustomed to investigate the sources of public prosperity upon a large
scale, must be too well convinced of the utility of commerce, to be inclined to inflict upon it so
deep a wound as would result from the entire exclusion of those who would best understand its
interest from a share in the management of them. The importance of commerce, in the view of
revenue alone, must effectually guard it against the enmity of a body which would be continually
importuned in its favor, by the urgent calls of public necessity.

I the rather consult brevity in discussing the probability of a preference founded upon a
discrimination between the different kinds of industry and property, because, as far as I
understand the meaning of the objectors, they contemplate a discrimination of another kind.
They appear to have in view, as the objects of the preference with which they endeavor to alarm
us, those whom they designate by the description of “the wealthy and the well-born.” These, it
seems, are to be exalted to an odious pre-eminence over the rest of their fellow-citizens. At one
time, however, their elevation is to be a necessary consequence of the smallness of the
representative body; at another time it is to be effected by depriving the people at large of the
opportunity of exercising their right of suffrage in the choice of that body.

But upon what principle is the discrimination of the places of election to be made, in order to
answer the purpose of the meditated preference? Are “the wealthy and the well-born,” as they are
called, confined to particular spots in the several States? Have they, by some miraculous instinct
or foresight, set apart in each of them a common place of residence? Are they only to be met



                                                                  276
 
                               


with in the towns or cities? Or are they, on the contrary, scattered over the face of the country as
avarice or chance may have happened to cast their own lot or that of their predecessors? If the
latter is the case, (as every intelligent man knows it to be,1) is it not evident that the policy of
confining the places of election to particular districts would be as subversive of its own aim as it
would be exceptionable on every other account? The truth is, that there is no method of securing
to the rich the preference apprehended, but by prescribing qualifications of property either for
those who may elect or be elected. But this forms no part of the power to be conferred upon the
national government. Its authority would be expressly restricted to the regulation of the times,
the places, the manner of elections. The qualifications of the persons who may choose or be
chosen, as has been remarked upon other occasions, are defined and fixed in the Constitution,
and are unalterable by the legislature.

Let it, however, be admitted, for argument sake, that the expedient suggested might be
successful; and let it at the same time be equally taken for granted that all the scruples which a
sense of duty or an apprehension of the danger of the experiment might inspire, were overcome
in the breasts of the national rulers, still I imagine it will hardly be pretended that they could ever
hope to carry such an enterprise into execution without the aid of a military force sufficient to
subdue the resistance of the great body of the people. The improbability of the existence of a
force equal to that object has been discussed and demonstrated in different parts of these papers;
but that the futility of the objection under consideration may appear in the strongest light, it shall
be conceded for a moment that such a force might exist, and the national government shall be
supposed to be in the actual possession of it. What will be the conclusion? With a disposition to
invade the essential rights of the community, and with the means of gratifying that disposition, is
it presumable that the persons who were actuated by it would amuse themselves in the ridiculous
task of fabricating election laws for securing a preference to a favorite class of men? Would they
not be likely to prefer a conduct better adapted to their own immediate aggrandizement? Would
they not rather boldly resolve to perpetuate themselves in office by one decisive act of
usurpation, than to trust to precarious expedients which, in spite of all the precautions that might
accompany them, might terminate in the dismission, disgrace, and ruin of their authors? Would
they not fear that citizens, not less tenacious than conscious of their rights, would flock from the
remote extremes of their respective States to the places of election, to overthrow their tyrants,
and to substitute men who would be disposed to avenge the violated majesty of the people?




                                                                   277
 
                               



Federalist No. 61 - Concerning the Power of Congress to Regulate
the Election of Members (continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Tuesday, February 26, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE more candid opposers of the provision respecting elections, contained in the plan of the
convention, when pressed in argument, will sometimes concede the propriety of that provision;
with this qualification, however, that it ought to have been accompanied with a declaration, that
all elections should be had in the counties where the electors resided. This, say they, was a
necessary precaution against an abuse of the power. A declaration of this nature would certainly
have been harmless; so far as it would have had the effect of quieting apprehensions, it might not
have been undesirable. But it would, in fact, have afforded little or no additional security against
the danger apprehended; and the want of it will never be considered, by an impartial and
judicious examiner, as a serious, still less as an insuperable, objection to the plan. The different
views taken of the subject in the two preceding papers must be sufficient to satisfy all
dispassionate and discerning men, that if the public liberty should ever be the victim of the
ambition of the national rulers, the power under examination, at least, will be guiltless of the
sacrifice.

If those who are inclined to consult their jealousy only, would exercise it in a careful inspection
of the several State constitutions, they would find little less room for disquietude and alarm, from
the latitude which most of them allow in respect to elections, than from the latitude which is
proposed to be allowed to the national government in the same respect. A review of their
situation, in this particular, would tend greatly to remove any ill impressions which may remain
in regard to this matter. But as that view would lead into long and tedious details, I shall content
myself with the single example of the State in which I write. The constitution of New York
makes no other provision for locality of elections, than that the members of the Assembly shall
be elected in the counties; those of the Senate, in the great districts into which the State is or may
be divided: these at present are four in number, and comprehend each from two to six counties. It
may readily be perceived that it would not be more difficult to the legislature of New York to
defeat the suffrages of the citizens of New York, by confining elections to particular places, than
for the legislature of the United States to defeat the suffrages of the citizens of the Union, by the
like expedient. Suppose, for instance, the city of Albany was to be appointed the sole place of
election for the county and district of which it is a part, would not the inhabitants of that city
speedily become the only electors of the members both of the Senate and Assembly for that
county and district? Can we imagine that the electors who reside in the remote subdivisions of
the counties of Albany, Saratoga, Cambridge, etc., or in any part of the county of Montgomery,
would take the trouble to come to the city of Albany, to give their votes for members of the
Assembly or Senate, sooner than they would repair to the city of New York, to participate in the


                                                                  278
 
                               


choice of the members of the federal House of Representatives? The alarming indifference
discoverable in the exercise of so invaluable a privilege under the existing laws, which afford
every facility to it, furnishes a ready answer to this question. And, abstracted from any
experience on the subject, we can be at no loss to determine, that when the place of election is at
an inconvenient distance from the elector, the effect upon his conduct will be the same whether
that distance be twenty miles or twenty thousand miles. Hence it must appear, that objections to
the particular modification of the federal power of regulating elections will, in substance, apply
with equal force to the modification of the like power in the constitution of this State; and for this
reason it will be impossible to acquit the one, and to condemn the other. A similar comparison
would lead to the same conclusion in respect to the constitutions of most of the other States.

If it should be said that defects in the State constitutions furnish no apology for those which are
to be found in the plan proposed, I answer, that as the former have never been thought
chargeable with inattention to the security of liberty, where the imputations thrown on the latter
can be shown to be applicable to them also, the presumption is that they are rather the cavilling
refinements of a predetermined opposition, than the well-founded inferences of a candid research
after truth. To those who are disposed to consider, as innocent omissions in the State
constitutions, what they regard as unpardonable blemishes in the plan of the convention, nothing
can be said; or at most, they can only be asked to assign some substantial reason why the
representatives of the people in a single State should be more impregnable to the lust of power,
or other sinister motives, than the representatives of the people of the United States? If they
cannot do this, they ought at least to prove to us that it is easier to subvert the liberties of three
millions of people, with the advantage of local governments to head their opposition, than of two
hundred thousand people who are destitute of that advantage. And in relation to the point
immediately under consideration, they ought to convince us that it is less probable that a
predominant faction in a single State should, in order to maintain its superiority, incline to a
preference of a particular class of electors, than that a similar spirit should take possession of the
representatives of thirteen States, spread over a vast region, and in several respects
distinguishable from each other by a diversity of local circumstances, prejudices, and interests.

Hitherto my observations have only aimed at a vindication of the provision in question, on the
ground of theoretic propriety, on that of the danger of placing the power elsewhere, and on that
of the safety of placing it in the manner proposed. But there remains to be mentioned a positive
advantage which will result from this disposition, and which could not as well have been
obtained from any other: I allude to the circumstance of uniformity in the time of elections for
the federal House of Representatives. It is more than possible that this uniformity may be found
by experience to be of great importance to the public welfare, both as a security against the
perpetuation of the same spirit in the body, and as a cure for the diseases of faction. If each State
may choose its own time of election, it is possible there may be at least as many different periods
as there are months in the year. The times of election in the several States, as they are now
established for local purposes, vary between extremes as wide as March and November. The
consequence of this diversity would be that there could never happen a total dissolution or
renovation of the body at one time. If an improper spirit of any kind should happen to prevail in



                                                                  279
 
                              


it, that spirit would be apt to infuse itself into the new members, as they come forward in
succession. The mass would be likely to remain nearly the same, assimilating constantly to itself
its gradual accretions. There is a contagion in example which few men have sufficient force of
mind to resist. I am inclined to think that treble the duration in office, with the condition of a
total dissolution of the body at the same time, might be less formidable to liberty than one third
of that duration subject to gradual and successive alterations.

Uniformity in the time of elections seems not less requisite for executing the idea of a regular
rotation in the Senate, and for conveniently assembling the legislature at a stated period in each
year.

It may be asked, Why, then, could not a time have been fixed in the Constitution? As the most
zealous adversaries of the plan of the convention in this State are, in general, not less zealous
admirers of the constitution of the State, the question may be retorted, and it may be asked, Why
was not a time for the like purpose fixed in the constitution of this State? No better answer can
be given than that it was a matter which might safely be entrusted to legislative discretion; and
that if a time had been appointed, it might, upon experiment, have been found less convenient
than some other time. The same answer may be given to the question put on the other side. And
it may be added that the supposed danger of a gradual change being merely speculative, it would
have been hardly advisable upon that speculation to establish, as a fundamental point, what
would deprive several States of the convenience of having the elections for their own
governments and for the national government at the same epochs.




                                                                 280
 
                               



Federalist No. 62 - The Senate
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Wednesday, February 27, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

HAVING examined the constitution of the House of Representatives, and answered such of the
objections against it as seemed to merit notice, I enter next on the examination of the Senate. The
heads into which this member of the government may be considered are: I. The qualification of
senators; II. The appointment of them by the State legislatures; III. The equality of representation
in the Senate; IV. The number of senators, and the term for which they are to be elected; V. The
powers vested in the Senate.

I. The qualifications proposed for senators, as distinguished from those of representatives,
consist in a more advanced age and a longer period of citizenship. A senator must be thirty years
of age at least; as a representative must be twenty-five. And the former must have been a citizen
nine years; as seven years are required for the latter. The propriety of these distinctions is
explained by the nature of the senatorial trust, which, requiring greater extent of information and
stability of character, requires at the same time that the senator should have reached a period of
life most likely to supply these advantages; and which, participating immediately in transactions
with foreign nations, ought to be exercised by none who are not thoroughly weaned from the
prepossessions and habits incident to foreign birth and education. The term of nine years appears
to be a prudent mediocrity between a total exclusion of adopted citizens, whose merits and
talents may claim a share in the public confidence, and an indiscriminate and hasty admission of
them, which might create a channel for foreign influence on the national councils.

II. It is equally unnecessary to dilate on the appointment of senators by the State legislatures.
Among the various modes which might have been devised for constituting this branch of the
government, that which has been proposed by the convention is probably the most congenial
with the public opinion. It is recommended by the double advantage of favoring a select
appointment, and of giving to the State governments such an agency in the formation of the
federal government as must secure the authority of the former, and may form a convenient link
between the two systems.

III. The equality of representation in the Senate is another point, which, being evidently the result
of compromise between the opposite pretensions of the large and the small States, does not call
for much discussion. If indeed it be right, that among a people thoroughly incorporated into one
nation, every district ought to have a proportional share in the government, and that among
independent and sovereign States, bound together by a simple league, the parties, however
unequal in size, ought to have an equal share in the common councils, it does not appear to be
without some reason that in a compound republic, partaking both of the national and federal



                                                                 281
 
                               


character, the government ought to be founded on a mixture of the principles of proportional and
equal representation. But it is superfluous to try, by the standard of theory, a part of the
Constitution which is allowed on all hands to be the result, not of theory, but “of a spirit of
amity, and that mutual deference and concession which the peculiarity of our political situation
rendered indispensable.” A common government, with powers equal to its objects, is called for
by the voice, and still more loudly by the political situation, of America. A government founded
on principles more consonant to the wishes of the larger States, is not likely to be obtained from
the smaller States. The only option, then, for the former, lies between the proposed government
and a government still more objectionable. Under this alternative, the advice of prudence must be
to embrace the lesser evil; and, instead of indulging a fruitless anticipation of the possible
mischiefs which may ensue, to contemplate rather the advantageous consequences which may
qualify the sacrifice.

In this spirit it may be remarked, that the equal vote allowed to each State is at once a
constitutional recognition of the portion of sovereignty remaining in the individual States, and an
instrument for preserving that residuary sovereignty. So far the equality ought to be no less
acceptable to the large than to the small States; since they are not less solicitous to guard, by
every possible expedient, against an improper consolidation of the States into one simple
republic.

Another advantage accruing from this ingredient in the constitution of the Senate is, the
additional impediment it must prove against improper acts of legislation. No law or resolution
can now be passed without the concurrence, first, of a majority of the people, and then, of a
majority of the States. It must be acknowledged that this complicated check on legislation may in
some instances be injurious as well as beneficial; and that the peculiar defense which it involves
in favor of the smaller States, would be more rational, if any interests common to them, and
distinct from those of the other States, would otherwise be exposed to peculiar danger. But as the
larger States will always be able, by their power over the supplies, to defeat unreasonable
exertions of this prerogative of the lesser States, and as the faculty and excess of law-making
seem to be the diseases to which our governments are most liable, it is not impossible that this
part of the Constitution may be more convenient in practice than it appears to many in
contemplation.

IV. The number of senators, and the duration of their appointment, come next to be considered.
In order to form an accurate judgment on both of these points, it will be proper to inquire into the
purposes which are to be answered by a senate; and in order to ascertain these, it will be
necessary to review the inconveniences which a republic must suffer from the want of such an
institution.

First. It is a misfortune incident to republican government, though in a less degree than to other
governments, that those who administer it may forget their obligations to their constituents, and
prove unfaithful to their important trust. In this point of view, a senate, as a second branch of the
legislative assembly, distinct from, and dividing the power with, a first, must be in all cases a



                                                                  282
 
                               


salutary check on the government. It doubles the security to the people, by requiring the
concurrence of two distinct bodies in schemes of usurpation or perfidy, where the ambition or
corruption of one would otherwise be sufficient. This is a precaution founded on such clear
principles, and now so well understood in the United States, that it would be more than
superfluous to enlarge on it. I will barely remark, that as the improbability of sinister
combinations will be in proportion to the dissimilarity in the genius of the two bodies, it must be
politic to distinguish them from each other by every circumstance which will consist with a due
harmony in all proper measures, and with the genuine principles of republican government.

Second. The necessity of a senate is not less indicated by the propensity of all single and
numerous assemblies to yield to the impulse of sudden and violent passions, and to be seduced
by factious leaders into intemperate and pernicious resolutions. Examples on this subject might
be cited without number; and from proceedings within the United States, as well as from the
history of other nations. But a position that will not be contradicted, need not be proved. All that
need be remarked is, that a body which is to correct this infirmity ought itself to be free from it,
and consequently ought to be less numerous. It ought, moreover, to possess great firmness, and
consequently ought to hold its authority by a tenure of considerable duration.

Third. Another defect to be supplied by a senate lies in a want of due acquaintance with the
objects and principles of legislation. It is not possible that an assembly of men called for the most
part from pursuits of a private nature, continued in appointment for a short time, and led by no
permanent motive to devote the intervals of public occupation to a study of the laws, the affairs,
and the comprehensive interests of their country, should, if left wholly to themselves, escape a
variety of important errors in the exercise of their legislative trust. It may be affirmed, on the best
grounds, that no small share of the present embarrassments of America is to be charged on the
blunders of our governments; and that these have proceeded from the heads rather than the hearts
of most of the authors of them. What indeed are all the repealing, explaining, and amending
laws, which fill and disgrace our voluminous codes, but so many monuments of deficient
wisdom; so many impeachments exhibited by each succeeding against each preceding session; so
many admonitions to the people, of the value of those aids which may be expected from a well-
constituted senate?

A good government implies two things: first, fidelity to the object of government, which is the
happiness of the people; secondly, a knowledge of the means by which that object can be best
attained. Some governments are deficient in both these qualities; most governments are deficient
in the first. I scruple not to assert, that in American governments too little attention has been paid
to the last. The federal Constitution avoids this error; and what merits particular notice, it
provides for the last in a mode which increases the security for the first.

Fourth. The mutability in the public councils arising from a rapid succession of new members,
however qualified they may be, points out, in the strongest manner, the necessity of some stable
institution in the government. Every new election in the States is found to change one half of the
representatives. From this change of men must proceed a change of opinions; and from a change



                                                                   283
 
                               


of opinions, a change of measures. But a continual change even of good measures is inconsistent
with every rule of prudence and every prospect of success. The remark is verified in private life,
and becomes more just, as well as more important, in national transactions.

To trace the mischievous effects of a mutable government would fill a volume. I will hint a few
only, each of which will be perceived to be a source of innumerable others.

In the first place, it forfeits the respect and confidence of other nations, and all the advantages
connected with national character. An individual who is observed to be inconstant to his plans, or
perhaps to carry on his affairs without any plan at all, is marked at once, by all prudent people, as
a speedy victim to his own unsteadiness and folly. His more friendly neighbors may pity him, but
all will decline to connect their fortunes with his; and not a few will seize the opportunity of
making their fortunes out of his. One nation is to another what one individual is to another; with
this melancholy distinction perhaps, that the former, with fewer of the benevolent emotions than
the latter, are under fewer restraints also from taking undue advantage from the indiscretions of
each other. Every nation, consequently, whose affairs betray a want of wisdom and stability, may
calculate on every loss which can be sustained from the more systematic policy of their wiser
neighbors. But the best instruction on this subject is unhappily conveyed to America by the
example of her own situation. She finds that she is held in no respect by her friends; that she is
the derision of her enemies; and that she is a prey to every nation which has an interest in
speculating on her fluctuating councils and embarrassed affairs.

The internal effects of a mutable policy are still more calamitous. It poisons the blessing of
liberty itself. It will be of little avail to the people, that the laws are made by men of their own
choice, if the laws be so voluminous that they cannot be read, or so incoherent that they cannot
be understood; if they be repealed or revised before they are promulgated, or undergo such
incessant changes that no man, who knows what the law is to-day, can guess what it will be to-
morrow. Law is defined to be a rule of action; but how can that be a rule, which is little known,
and less fixed?

Another effect of public instability is the unreasonable advantage it gives to the sagacious, the
enterprising, and the moneyed few over the industrious and uniformed mass of the people. Every
new regulation concerning commerce or revenue, or in any way affecting the value of the
different species of property, presents a new harvest to those who watch the change, and can
trace its consequences; a harvest, reared not by themselves, but by the toils and cares of the great
body of their fellow-citizens. This is a state of things in which it may be said with some truth that
laws are made for the few, not for the many.

In another point of view, great injury results from an unstable government. The want of
confidence in the public councils damps every useful undertaking, the success and profit of
which may depend on a continuance of existing arrangements. What prudent merchant will
hazard his fortunes in any new branch of commerce when he knows not but that his plans may be
rendered unlawful before they can be executed? What farmer or manufacturer will lay himself



                                                                  284
 
                              


out for the encouragement given to any particular cultivation or establishment, when he can have
no assurance that his preparatory labors and advances will not render him a victim to an
inconstant government? In a word, no great improvement or laudable enterprise can go forward
which requires the auspices of a steady system of national policy.

But the most deplorable effect of all is that diminution of attachment and reverence which steals
into the hearts of the people, towards a political system which betrays so many marks of
infirmity, and disappoints so many of their flattering hopes. No government, any more than an
individual, will long be respected without being truly respectable; nor be truly respectable,
without possessing a certain portion of order and stability.




                                                               285
 
                              



Federalist No. 63 - The Senate (continued)
Written by James Madison
Independent Journal, Saturday, March 1, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

A fifth desideratum, illustrating the utility of a senate, is the want of a due sense of national
character. Without a select and stable member of the government, the esteem of foreign powers
will not only be forfeited by an unenlightened and variable policy, proceeding from the causes
already mentioned, but the national councils will not possess that sensibility to the opinion of the
world, which is perhaps not less necessary in order to merit, than it is to obtain, its respect and
confidence.

An attention to the judgment of other nations is important to every government for two reasons:
the one is, that, independently of the merits of any particular plan or measure, it is desirable, on
various accounts, that it should appear to other nations as the offspring of a wise and honorable
policy; the second is, that in doubtful cases, particularly where the national councils may be
warped by some strong passion or momentary interest, the presumed or known opinion of the
impartial world may be the best guide that can be followed. What has not America lost by her
want of character with foreign nations; and how many errors and follies would she not have
avoided, if the justice and propriety of her measures had, in every instance, been previously tried
by the light in which they would probably appear to the unbiased part of mankind?

Yet however requisite a sense of national character may be, it is evident that it can never be
sufficiently possessed by a numerous and changeable body. It can only be found in a number so
small that a sensible degree of the praise and blame of public measures may be the portion of
each individual; or in an assembly so durably invested with public trust, that the pride and
consequence of its members may be sensibly incorporated with the reputation and prosperity of
the community. The half-yearly representatives of Rhode Island would probably have been little
affected in their deliberations on the iniquitous measures of that State, by arguments drawn from
the light in which such measures would be viewed by foreign nations, or even by the sister
States; whilst it can scarcely be doubted that if the concurrence of a select and stable body had
been necessary, a regard to national character alone would have prevented the calamities under
which that misguided people is now laboring.

I add, as a sixth defect the want, in some important cases, of a due responsibility in the
government to the people, arising from that frequency of elections which in other cases produces
this responsibility. This remark will, perhaps, appear not only new, but paradoxical. It must
nevertheless be acknowledged, when explained, to be as undeniable as it is important.




                                                                 286
 
                               


Responsibility, in order to be reasonable, must be limited to objects within the power of the
responsible party, and in order to be effectual, must relate to operations of that power, of which a
ready and proper judgment can be formed by the constituents. The objects of government may be
divided into two general classes: the one depending on measures which have singly an
immediate and sensible operation; the other depending on a succession of well-chosen and well-
connected measures, which have a gradual and perhaps unobserved operation. The importance of
the latter description to the collective and permanent welfare of every country, needs no
explanation. And yet it is evident that an assembly elected for so short a term as to be unable to
provide more than one or two links in a chain of measures, on which the general welfare may
essentially depend, ought not to be answerable for the final result, any more than a steward or
tenant, engaged for one year, could be justly made to answer for places or improvements which
could not be accomplished in less than half a dozen years. Nor is it possible for the people to
estimate the share of influence which their annual assemblies may respectively have on events
resulting from the mixed transactions of several years. It is sufficiently difficult to preserve a
personal responsibility in the members of a numerous body, for such acts of the body as have an
immediate, detached, and palpable operation on its constituents.

The proper remedy for this defect must be an additional body in the legislative department,
which, having sufficient permanency to provide for such objects as require a continued attention,
and a train of measures, may be justly and effectually answerable for the attainment of those
objects.

Thus far I have considered the circumstances which point out the necessity of a well-constructed
Senate only as they relate to the representatives of the people. To a people as little blinded by
prejudice or corrupted by flattery as those whom I address, I shall not scruple to add, that such an
institution may be sometimes necessary as a defense to the people against their own temporary
errors and delusions. As the cool and deliberate sense of the community ought, in all
governments, and actually will, in all free governments, ultimately prevail over the views of its
rulers; so there are particular moments in public affairs when the people, stimulated by some
irregular passion, or some illicit advantage, or misled by the artful misrepresentations of
interested men, may call for measures which they themselves will afterwards be the most ready
to lament and condemn. In these critical moments, how salutary will be the interference of some
temperate and respectable body of citizens, in order to check the misguided career, and to
suspend the blow meditated by the people against themselves, until reason, justice, and truth can
regain their authority over the public mind? What bitter anguish would not the people of Athens
have often escaped if their government had contained so provident a safeguard against the
tyranny of their own passions? Popular liberty might then have escaped the indelible reproach of
decreeing to the same citizens the hemlock on one day and statues on the next.

It may be suggested, that a people spread over an extensive region cannot, like the crowded
inhabitants of a small district, be subject to the infection of violent passions, or to the danger of
combining in pursuit of unjust measures. I am far from denying that this is a distinction of
peculiar importance. I have, on the contrary, endeavored in a former paper to show, that it is one



                                                                  287
 
                               


of the principal recommendations of a confederated republic. At the same time, this advantage
ought not to be considered as superseding the use of auxiliary precautions. It may even be
remarked, that the same extended situation, which will exempt the people of America from some
of the dangers incident to lesser republics, will expose them to the inconveniency of remaining
for a longer time under the influence of those misrepresentations which the combined industry of
interested men may succeed in distributing among them.

It adds no small weight to all these considerations, to recollect that history informs us of no long-
lived republic which had not a senate. Sparta, Rome, and Carthage are, in fact, the only states to
whom that character can be applied. In each of the two first there was a senate for life. The
constitution of the senate in the last is less known. Circumstantial evidence makes it probable
that it was not different in this particular from the two others. It is at least certain, that it had
some quality or other which rendered it an anchor against popular fluctuations; and that a smaller
council, drawn out of the senate, was appointed not only for life, but filled up vacancies itself.
These examples, though as unfit for the imitation, as they are repugnant to the genius, of
America, are, notwithstanding, when compared with the fugitive and turbulent existence of other
ancient republics, very instructive proofs of the necessity of some institution that will blend
stability with liberty. I am not unaware of the circumstances which distinguish the American
from other popular governments, as well ancient as modern; and which render extreme
circumspection necessary, in reasoning from the one case to the other. But after allowing due
weight to this consideration, it may still be maintained, that there are many points of similitude
which render these examples not unworthy of our attention. Many of the defects, as we have
seen, which can only be supplied by a senatorial institution, are common to a numerous assembly
frequently elected by the people, and to the people themselves. There are others peculiar to the
former, which require the control of such an institution. The people can never wilfully betray
their own interests; but they may possibly be betrayed by the representatives of the people; and
the danger will be evidently greater where the whole legislative trust is lodged in the hands of
one body of men, than where the concurrence of separate and dissimilar bodies is required in
every public act.

The difference most relied on, between the American and other republics, consists in the
principle of representation; which is the pivot on which the former move, and which is supposed
to have been unknown to the latter, or at least to the ancient part of them. The use which has
been made of this difference, in reasonings contained in former papers, will have shown that I
am disposed neither to deny its existence nor to undervalue its importance. I feel the less
restraint, therefore, in observing, that the position concerning the ignorance of the ancient
governments on the subject of representation, is by no means precisely true in the latitude
commonly given to it. Without entering into a disquisition which here would be misplaced, I will
refer to a few known facts, in support of what I advance.

In the most pure democracies of Greece, many of the executive functions were performed, not by
the people themselves, but by officers elected by the people, and representing the people in their
executive capacity.



                                                                 288
 
                               



Prior to the reform of Solon, Athens was governed by nine Archons, annually elected by the
people at large. The degree of power delegated to them seems to be left in great obscurity.
Subsequent to that period, we find an assembly, first of four, and afterwards of six hundred
members, annually elected by the people; and partially representing them in their legislative
capacity, since they were not only associated with the people in the function of making laws, but
had the exclusive right of originating legislative propositions to the people. The senate of
Carthage, also, whatever might be its power, or the duration of its appointment, appears to have
been elective by the suffrages of the people. Similar instances might be traced in most, if not all
the popular governments of antiquity.

Lastly, in Sparta we meet with the Ephori, and in Rome with the Tribunes; two bodies, small
indeed in numbers, but annually elected by the whole body of the people, and considered as the
representatives of the people, almost in their plenipotentiary capacity. The Cosmi of Crete were
also annually elected by the people, and have been considered by some authors as an institution
analogous to those of Sparta and Rome, with this difference only, that in the election of that
representative body the right of suffrage was communicated to a part only of the people.

From these facts, to which many others might be added, it is clear that the principle of
representation was neither unknown to the ancients nor wholly overlooked in their political
constitutions. The true distinction between these and the American governments, lies in the total
exclusion of the people, in their collective capacity, from any share in the latter, and not in the
total exclusion of the representatives of the people from the administration of the former. The
distinction, however, thus qualified, must be admitted to leave a most advantageous superiority
in favor of the United States. But to insure to this advantage its full effect, we must be careful not
to separate it from the other advantage, of an extensive territory. For it cannot be believed, that
any form of representative government could have succeeded within the narrow limits occupied
by the democracies of Greece.

In answer to all these arguments, suggested by reason, illustrated by examples, and enforced by
our own experience, the jealous adversary of the Constitution will probably content himself with
repeating, that a senate appointed not immediately by the people, and for the term of six years,
must gradually acquire a dangerous pre-eminence in the government, and finally transform it into
a tyrannical aristocracy.

To this general answer, the general reply ought to be sufficient, that liberty may be endangered
by the abuses of liberty as well as by the abuses of power; that there are numerous instances of
the former as well as of the latter; and that the former, rather than the latter, are apparently most
to be apprehended by the United States. But a more particular reply may be given.

Before such a revolution can be effected, the Senate, it is to be observed, must in the first place
corrupt itself; must next corrupt the State legislatures; must then corrupt the House of
Representatives; and must finally corrupt the people at large. It is evident that the Senate must be



                                                                   289
 
                               


first corrupted before it can attempt an establishment of tyranny. Without corrupting the State
legislatures, it cannot prosecute the attempt, because the periodical change of members would
otherwise regenerate the whole body. Without exerting the means of corruption with equal
success on the House of Representatives, the opposition of that coequal branch of the
government would inevitably defeat the attempt; and without corrupting the people themselves, a
succession of new representatives would speedily restore all things to their pristine order. Is there
any man who can seriously persuade himself that the proposed Senate can, by any possible
means within the compass of human address, arrive at the object of a lawless ambition, through
all these obstructions?

If reason condemns the suspicion, the same sentence is pronounced by experience. The
constitution of Maryland furnishes the most apposite example. The Senate of that State is
elected, as the federal Senate will be, indirectly by the people, and for a term less by one year
only than the federal Senate. It is distinguished, also, by the remarkable prerogative of filling up
its own vacancies within the term of its appointment, and, at the same time, is not under the
control of any such rotation as is provided for the federal Senate. There are some other lesser
distinctions, which would expose the former to colorable objections, that do not lie against the
latter. If the federal Senate, therefore, really contained the danger which has been so loudly
proclaimed, some symptoms at least of a like danger ought by this time to have been betrayed by
the Senate of Maryland, but no such symptoms have appeared. On the contrary, the jealousies at
first entertained by men of the same description with those who view with terror the
correspondent part of the federal Constitution, have been gradually extinguished by the progress
of the experiment; and the Maryland constitution is daily deriving, from the salutary operation of
this part of it, a reputation in which it will probably not be rivalled by that of any State in the
Union.

But if anything could silence the jealousies on this subject, it ought to be the British example.
The Senate there instead of being elected for a term of six years, and of being unconfined to
particular families or fortunes, is an hereditary assembly of opulent nobles. The House of
Representatives, instead of being elected for two years, and by the whole body of the people, is
elected for seven years, and, in very great proportion, by a very small proportion of the people.
Here, unquestionably, ought to be seen in full display the aristocratic usurpations and tyranny
which are at some future period to be exemplified in the United States. Unfortunately, however,
for the anti-federal argument, the British history informs us that this hereditary assembly has not
been able to defend itself against the continual encroachments of the House of Representatives;
and that it no sooner lost the support of the monarch, than it was actually crushed by the weight
of the popular branch.

As far as antiquity can instruct us on this subject, its examples support the reasoning which we
have employed. In Sparta, the Ephori, the annual representatives of the people, were found an
overmatch for the senate for life, continually gained on its authority and finally drew all power
into their own hands. The Tribunes of Rome, who were the representatives of the people,
prevailed, it is well known, in almost every contest with the senate for life, and in the end gained



                                                                 290
 
                              


the most complete triumph over it. The fact is the more remarkable, as unanimity was required in
every act of the Tribunes, even after their number was augmented to ten. It proves the irresistible
force possessed by that branch of a free government, which has the people on its side. To these
examples might be added that of Carthage, whose senate, according to the testimony of Polybius,
instead of drawing all power into its vortex, had, at the commencement of the second Punic War,
lost almost the whole of its original portion.

Besides the conclusive evidence resulting from this assemblage of facts, that the federal Senate
will never be able to transform itself, by gradual usurpations, into an independent and aristocratic
body, we are warranted in believing, that if such a revolution should ever happen from causes
which the foresight of man cannot guard against, the House of Representatives, with the people
on their side, will at all times be able to bring back the Constitution to its primitive form and
principles. Against the force of the immediate representatives of the people, nothing will be able
to maintain even the constitutional authority of the Senate, but such a display of enlightened
policy, and attachment to the public good, as will divide with that branch of the legislature the
affections and support of the entire body of the people themselves.




                                                                 291
 
                               



Federalist No. 64 - The Powers of the Senate
Written by John Jay
Independent Journal, Wednesday, March 5, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

IT IS a just and not a new observation, that enemies to particular persons, and opponents to
particular measures, seldom confine their censures to such things only in either as are worthy of
blame. Unless on this principle, it is difficult to explain the motives of their conduct, who
condemn the proposed Constitution in the aggregate, and treat with severity some of the most
unexceptionable articles in it.

The second section gives power to the President, “by and with the advice and consent of the
senate, to make treaties, PROVIDED TWO THIRDS OF THE SENATORS PRESENT
CONCUR.”

The power of making treaties is an important one, especially as it relates to war, peace, and
commerce; and it should not be delegated but in such a mode, and with such precautions, as will
afford the highest security that it will be exercised by men the best qualified for the purpose, and
in the manner most conducive to the public good. The convention appears to have been attentive
to both these points: they have directed the President to be chosen by select bodies of electors, to
be deputed by the people for that express purpose; and they have committed the appointment of
senators to the State legislatures. This mode has, in such cases, vastly the advantage of elections
by the people in their collective capacity, where the activity of party zeal, taking the advantage of
the supineness, the ignorance, and the hopes and fears of the unwary and interested, often places
men in office by the votes of a small proportion of the electors.

As the select assemblies for choosing the President, as well as the State legislatures who appoint
the senators, will in general be composed of the most enlightened and respectable citizens, there
is reason to presume that their attention and their votes will be directed to those men only who
have become the most distinguished by their abilities and virtue, and in whom the people
perceive just grounds for confidence. The Constitution manifests very particular attention to this
object. By excluding men under thirty-five from the first office, and those under thirty from the
second, it confines the electors to men of whom the people have had time to form a judgment,
and with respect to whom they will not be liable to be deceived by those brilliant appearances of
genius and patriotism, which, like transient meteors, sometimes mislead as well as dazzle. If the
observation be well founded, that wise kings will always be served by able ministers, it is fair to
argue, that as an assembly of select electors possess, in a greater degree than kings, the means of
extensive and accurate information relative to men and characters, so will their appointments
bear at least equal marks of discretion and discernment. The inference which naturally results
from these considerations is this, that the President and senators so chosen will always be of the



                                                                 292
 
                               


number of those who best understand our national interests, whether considered in relation to the
several States or to foreign nations, who are best able to promote those interests, and whose
reputation for integrity inspires and merits confidence. With such men the power of making
treaties may be safely lodged.

Although the absolute necessity of system, in the conduct of any business, is universally known
and acknowledged, yet the high importance of it in national affairs has not yet become
sufficiently impressed on the public mind. They who wish to commit the power under
consideration to a popular assembly, composed of members constantly coming and going in
quick succession, seem not to recollect that such a body must necessarily be inadequate to the
attainment of those great objects, which require to be steadily contemplated in all their relations
and circumstances, and which can only be approached and achieved by measures which not only
talents, but also exact information, and often much time, are necessary to concert and to execute.
It was wise, therefore, in the convention to provide, not only that the power of making treaties
should be committed to able and honest men, but also that they should continue in place a
sufficient time to become perfectly acquainted with our national concerns, and to form and
introduce a a system for the management of them. The duration prescribed is such as will give
them an opportunity of greatly extending their political information, and of rendering their
accumulating experience more and more beneficial to their country. Nor has the convention
discovered less prudence in providing for the frequent elections of senators in such a way as to
obviate the inconvenience of periodically transferring those great affairs entirely to new men; for
by leaving a considerable residue of the old ones in place, uniformity and order, as well as a
constant succession of official information will be preserved.

There are a few who will not admit that the affairs of trade and navigation should be regulated by
a system cautiously formed and steadily pursued; and that both our treaties and our laws should
correspond with and be made to promote it. It is of much consequence that this correspondence
and conformity be carefully maintained; and they who assent to the truth of this position will see
and confess that it is well provided for by making concurrence of the Senate necessary both to
treaties and to laws.

It seldom happens in the negotiation of treaties, of whatever nature, but that perfect secrecy and
immediate despatch are sometimes requisite. These are cases where the most useful intelligence
may be obtained, if the persons possessing it can be relieved from apprehensions of discovery.
Those apprehensions will operate on those persons whether they are actuated by mercenary or
friendly motives; and there doubtless are many of both descriptions, who would rely on the
secrecy of the President, but who would not confide in that of the Senate, and still less in that of
a large popular Assembly. The convention have done well, therefore, in so disposing of the
power of making treaties, that although the President must, in forming them, act by the advice
and consent of the Senate, yet he will be able to manage the business of intelligence in such a
manner as prudence may suggest.




                                                                  293
 
                               


They who have turned their attention to the affairs of men, must have perceived that there are
tides in them; tides very irregular in their duration, strength, and direction, and seldom found to
run twice exactly in the same manner or measure. To discern and to profit by these tides in
national affairs is the business of those who preside over them; and they who have had much
experience on this head inform us, that there frequently are occasions when days, nay, even when
hours, are precious. The loss of a battle, the death of a prince, the removal of a minister, or other
circumstances intervening to change the present posture and aspect of affairs, may turn the most
favorable tide into a course opposite to our wishes. As in the field, so in the cabinet, there are
moments to be seized as they pass, and they who preside in either should be left in capacity to
improve them. So often and so essentially have we heretofore suffered from the want of secrecy
and despatch, that the Constitution would have been inexcusably defective, if no attention had
been paid to those objects. Those matters which in negotiations usually require the most secrecy
and the most despatch, are those preparatory and auxiliary measures which are not otherwise
important in a national view, than as they tend to facilitate the attainment of the objects of the
negotiation. For these, the President will find no difficulty to provide; and should any
circumstance occur which requires the advice and consent of the Senate, he may at any time
convene them. Thus we see that the Constitution provides that our negotiations for treaties shall
have every advantage which can be derived from talents, information, integrity, and deliberate
investigations, on the one hand, and from secrecy and despatch on the other.

But to this plan, as to most others that have ever appeared, objections are contrived and urged.

Some are displeased with it, not on account of any errors or defects in it, but because, as the
treaties, when made, are to have the force of laws, they should be made only by men invested
with legislative authority. These gentlemen seem not to consider that the judgments of our
courts, and the commissions constitutionally given by our governor, are as valid and as binding
on all persons whom they concern, as the laws passed by our legislature. All constitutional acts
of power, whether in the executive or in the judicial department, have as much legal validity and
obligation as if they proceeded from the legislature; and therefore, whatever name be given to the
power of making treaties, or however obligatory they may be when made, certain it is, that the
people may, with much propriety, commit the power to a distinct body from the legislature, the
executive, or the judicial. It surely does not follow, that because they have given the power of
making laws to the legislature, that therefore they should likewise give them the power to do
every other act of sovereignty by which the citizens are to be bound and affected.

Others, though content that treaties should be made in the mode proposed, are averse to their
being the supreme laws of the land. They insist, and profess to believe, that treaties like acts of
assembly, should be repealable at pleasure. This idea seems to be new and peculiar to this
country, but new errors, as well as new truths, often appear. These gentlemen would do well to
reflect that a treaty is only another name for a bargain, and that it would be impossible to find a
nation who would make any bargain with us, which should be binding on them absolutely, but on
us only so long and so far as we may think proper to be bound by it. They who make laws may,
without doubt, amend or repeal them; and it will not be disputed that they who make treaties may



                                                                 294
 
                               


alter or cancel them; but still let us not forget that treaties are made, not by only one of the
contracting parties, but by both; and consequently, that as the consent of both was essential to
their formation at first, so must it ever afterwards be to alter or cancel them. The proposed
Constitution, therefore, has not in the least extended the obligation of treaties. They are just as
binding, and just as far beyond the lawful reach of legislative acts now, as they will be at any
future period, or under any form of government.

However useful jealousy may be in republics, yet when like bile in the natural, it abounds too
much in the body politic, the eyes of both become very liable to be deceived by the delusive
appearances which that malady casts on surrounding objects. From this cause, probably, proceed
the fears and apprehensions of some, that the President and Senate may make treaties without an
equal eye to the interests of all the States. Others suspect that two thirds will oppress the
remaining third, and ask whether those gentlemen are made sufficiently responsible for their
conduct; whether, if they act corruptly, they can be punished; and if they make disadvantageous
treaties, how are we to get rid of those treaties?

As all the States are equally represented in the Senate, and by men the most able and the most
willing to promote the interests of their constituents, they will all have an equal degree of
influence in that body, especially while they continue to be careful in appointing proper persons,
and to insist on their punctual attendance. In proportion as the United States assume a national
form and a national character, so will the good of the whole be more and more an object of
attention, and the government must be a weak one indeed, if it should forget that the good of the
whole can only be promoted by advancing the good of each of the parts or members which
compose the whole. It will not be in the power of the President and Senate to make any treaties
by which they and their families and estates will not be equally bound and affected with the rest
of the community; and, having no private interests distinct from that of the nation, they will be
under no temptations to neglect the latter.

As to corruption, the case is not supposable. He must either have been very unfortunate in his
intercourse with the world, or possess a heart very susceptible of such impressions, who can
think it probable that the President and two thirds of the Senate will ever be capable of such
unworthy conduct. The idea is too gross and too invidious to be entertained. But in such a case, if
it should ever happen, the treaty so obtained from us would, like all other fraudulent contracts, be
null and void by the law of nations.

With respect to their responsibility, it is difficult to conceive how it could be increased. Every
consideration that can influence the human mind, such as honor, oaths, reputations, conscience,
the love of country, and family affections and attachments, afford security for their fidelity. In
short, as the Constitution has taken the utmost care that they shall be men of talents and integrity,
we have reason to be persuaded that the treaties they make will be as advantageous as, all
circumstances considered, could be made; and so far as the fear of punishment and disgrace can
operate, that motive to good behavior is amply afforded by the article on the subject of
impeachments.



                                                                   295
 
                               



Federalist No. 65 - The Powers of the Senate (continued)
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Friday, March 7, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE remaining powers which the plan of the convention allots to the Senate, in a distinct
capacity, are comprised in their participation with the executive in the appointment to offices,
and in their judicial character as a court for the trial of impeachments. As in the business of
appointments the executive will be the principal agent, the provisions relating to it will most
properly be discussed in the examination of that department. We will, therefore, conclude this
head with a view of the judicial character of the Senate.

A well-constituted court for the trial of impeachments is an object not more to be desired than
difficult to be obtained in a government wholly elective. The subjects of its jurisdiction are those
offenses which proceed from the misconduct of public men, or, in other words, from the abuse or
violation of some public trust. They are of a nature which may with peculiar propriety be
denominated POLITICAL, as they relate chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society
itself. The prosecution of them, for this reason, will seldom fail to agitate the passions of the
whole community, and to divide it into parties more or less friendly or inimical to the accused. In
many cases it will connect itself with the pre-existing factions, and will enlist all their
animosities, partialities, influence, and interest on one side or on the other; and in such cases
there will always be the greatest danger that the decision will be regulated more by the
comparative strength of parties, than by the real demonstrations of innocence or guilt.

The delicacy and magnitude of a trust which so deeply concerns the political reputation and
existence of every man engaged in the administration of public affairs, speak for themselves. The
difficulty of placing it rightly, in a government resting entirely on the basis of periodical
elections, will as readily be perceived, when it is considered that the most conspicuous characters
in it will, from that circumstance, be too often the leaders or the tools of the most cunning or the
most numerous faction, and on this account, can hardly be expected to possess the requisite
neutrality towards those whose conduct may be the subject of scrutiny.

The convention, it appears, thought the Senate the most fit depositary of this important trust.
Those who can best discern the intrinsic difficulty of the thing, will be least hasty in condemning
that opinion, and will be most inclined to allow due weight to the arguments which may be
supposed to have produced it.

What, it may be asked, is the true spirit of the institution itself? Is it not designed as a method of
NATIONAL INQUEST into the conduct of public men? If this be the design of it, who can so
properly be the inquisitors for the nation as the representatives of the nation themselves? It is not



                                                                   296
 
                               


disputed that the power of originating the inquiry, or, in other words, of preferring the
impeachment, ought to be lodged in the hands of one branch of the legislative body. Will not the
reasons which indicate the propriety of this arrangement strongly plead for an admission of the
other branch of that body to a share of the inquiry? The model from which the idea of this
institution has been borrowed, pointed out that course to the convention. In Great Britain it is the
province of the House of Commons to prefer the impeachment, and of the House of Lords to
decide upon it. Several of the State constitutions have followed the example. As well the latter,
as the former, seem to have regarded the practice of impeachments as a bridle in the hands of the
legislative body upon the executive servants of the government. Is not this the true light in which
it ought to be regarded?

Where else than in the Senate could have been found a tribunal sufficiently dignified, or
sufficiently independent? What other body would be likely to feel confidence enough in its own
situation, to preserve, unawed and uninfluenced, the necessary impartiality between an individual
accused, and the representatives of the people, his accusers?

Could the Supreme Court have been relied upon as answering this description? It is much to be
doubted, whether the members of that tribunal would at all times be endowed with so eminent a
portion of fortitude, as would be called for in the execution of so difficult a task; and it is still
more to be doubted, whether they would possess the degree of credit and authority, which might,
on certain occasions, be indispensable towards reconciling the people to a decision that should
happen to clash with an accusation brought by their immediate representatives. A deficiency in
the first, would be fatal to the accused; in the last, dangerous to the public tranquillity. The
hazard in both these respects, could only be avoided, if at all, by rendering that tribunal more
numerous than would consist with a reasonable attention to economy. The necessity of a
numerous court for the trial of impeachments, is equally dictated by the nature of the proceeding.
This can never be tied down by such strict rules, either in the delineation of the offense by the
prosecutors, or in the construction of it by the judges, as in common cases serve to limit the
discretion of courts in favor of personal security. There will be no jury to stand between the
judges who are to pronounce the sentence of the law, and the party who is to receive or suffer it.
The awful discretion which a court of impeachments must necessarily have, to doom to honor or
to infamy the most confidential and the most distinguished characters of the community, forbids
the commitment of the trust to a small number of persons.

These considerations seem alone sufficient to authorize a conclusion, that the Supreme Court
would have been an improper substitute for the Senate, as a court of impeachments. There
remains a further consideration, which will not a little strengthen this conclusion. It is this: The
punishment which may be the consequence of conviction upon impeachment, is not to terminate
the chastisement of the offender. After having been sentenced to a prepetual ostracism from the
esteem and confidence, and honors and emoluments of his country, he will still be liable to
prosecution and punishment in the ordinary course of law. Would it be proper that the persons
who had disposed of his fame, and his most valuable rights as a citizen in one trial, should, in
another trial, for the same offense, be also the disposers of his life and his fortune? Would there



                                                                  297
 
                              


not be the greatest reason to apprehend, that error, in the first sentence, would be the parent of
error in the second sentence? That the strong bias of one decision would be apt to overrule the
influence of any new lights which might be brought to vary the complexion of another decision?
Those who know anything of human nature, will not hesitate to answer these questions in the
affirmative; and will be at no loss to perceive, that by making the same persons judges in both
cases, those who might happen to be the objects of prosecution would, in a great measure, be
deprived of the double security intended them by a double trial. The loss of life and estate would
often be virtually included in a sentence which, in its terms, imported nothing more than
dismission from a present, and disqualification for a future, office. It may be said, that the
intervention of a jury, in the second instance, would obviate the danger. But juries are frequently
influenced by the opinions of judges. They are sometimes induced to find special verdicts, which
refer the main question to the decision of the court. Who would be willing to stake his life and
his estate upon the verdict of a jury acting under the auspices of judges who had predetermined
his guilt?

Would it have been an improvement of the plan, to have united the Supreme Court with the
Senate, in the formation of the court of impeachments? This union would certainly have been
attended with several advantages; but would they not have been overbalanced by the signal
disadvantage, already stated, arising from the agency of the same judges in the double
prosecution to which the offender would be liable? To a certain extent, the benefits of that union
will be obtained from making the chief justice of the Supreme Court the president of the court of
impeachments, as is proposed to be done in the plan of the convention; while the inconveniences
of an entire incorporation of the former into the latter will be substantially avoided. This was
perhaps the prudent mean. I forbear to remark upon the additional pretext for clamor against the
judiciary, which so considerable an augmentation of its authority would have afforded.

Would it have been desirable to have composed the court for the trial of impeachments, of
persons wholly distinct from the other departments of the government? There are weighty
arguments, as well against, as in favor of, such a plan. To some minds it will not appear a trivial
objection, that it could tend to increase the complexity of the political machine, and to add a new
spring to the government, the utility of which would at best be questionable. But an objection
which will not be thought by any unworthy of attention, is this: a court formed upon such a plan,
would either be attended with a heavy expense, or might in practice be subject to a variety of
casualties and inconveniences. It must either consist of permanent officers, stationary at the seat
of government, and of course entitled to fixed and regular stipends, or of certain officers of the
State governments to be called upon whenever an impeachment was actually depending. It will
not be easy to imagine any third mode materially different, which could rationally be proposed.
As the court, for reasons already given, ought to be numerous, the first scheme will be
reprobated by every man who can compare the extent of the public wants with the means of
supplying them. The second will be espoused with caution by those who will seriously consider
the difficulty of collecting men dispersed over the whole Union; the injury to the innocent, from
the procrastinated determination of the charges which might be brought against them; the
advantage to the guilty, from the opportunities which delay would afford to intrigue and



                                                                298
 
                              


corruption; and in some cases the detriment to the State, from the prolonged inaction of men
whose firm and faithful execution of their duty might have exposed them to the persecution of an
intemperate or designing majority in the House of Representatives. Though this latter
supposition may seem harsh, and might not be likely often to be verified, yet it ought not to be
forgotten that the demon of faction will, at certain seasons, extend his sceptre over all numerous
bodies of men.

But though one or the other of the substitutes which have been examined, or some other that
might be devised, should be thought preferable to the plan in this respect, reported by the
convention, it will not follow that the Constitution ought for this reason to be rejected. If
mankind were to resolve to agree in no institution of government, until every part of it had been
adjusted to the most exact standard of perfection, society would soon become a general scene of
anarchy, and the world a desert. Where is the standard of perfection to be found? Who will
undertake to unite the discordant opinions of a whole commuity, in the same judgment of it; and
to prevail upon one conceited projector to renounce his infallible criterion for the fallible
criterion of his more conceited neighbor? To answer the purpose of the adversaries of the
Constitution, they ought to prove, not merely that particular provisions in it are not the best
which might have been imagined, but that the plan upon the whole is bad and pernicious.




                                                               299
 
                               



Federalist No. 66 - Objections to the Power of the Senate To Set as a
Court for Impeachments Further Considered
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Saturday, March 8, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

A REVIEW of the principal objections that have appeared against the proposed court for the trial
of impeachments, will not improbably eradicate the remains of any unfavorable impressions
which may still exist in regard to this matter.

The first of these objections is, that the provision in question confounds legislative and judiciary
authorities in the same body, in violation of that important and wellestablished maxim which
requires a separation between the different departments of power. The true meaning of this
maxim has been discussed and ascertained in another place, and has been shown to be entirely
compatible with a partial intermixture of those departments for special purposes, preserving
them, in the main, distinct and unconnected. This partial intermixture is even, in some cases, not
only proper but necessary to the mutual defense of the several members of the government
against each other. An absolute or qualified negative in the executive upon the acts of the
legislative body, is admitted, by the ablest adepts in political science, to be an indispensable
barrier against the encroachments of the latter upon the former. And it may, perhaps, with no less
reason be contended, that the powers relating to impeachments are, as before intimated, an
essential check in the hands of that body upon the encroachments of the executive. The division
of them between the two branches of the legislature, assigning to one the right of accusing, to the
other the right of judging, avoids the inconvenience of making the same persons both accusers
and judges; and guards against the danger of persecution, from the prevalency of a factious spirit
in either of those branches. As the concurrence of two thirds of the Senate will be requisite to a
condemnation, the security to innocence, from this additional circumstance, will be as complete
as itself can desire.

It is curious to observe, with what vehemence this part of the plan is assailed, on the principle
here taken notice of, by men who profess to admire, without exception, the constitution of this
State; while that constitution makes the Senate, together with the chancellor and judges of the
Supreme Court, not only a court of impeachments, but the highest judicatory in the State, in all
causes, civil and criminal. The proportion, in point of numbers, of the chancellor and judges to
the senators, is so inconsiderable, that the judiciary authority of New York, in the last resort,
may, with truth, be said to reside in its Senate. If the plan of the convention be, in this respect,
chargeable with a departure from the celebrated maxim which has been so often mentioned, and
seems to be so little understood, how much more culpable must be the constitution of New
York?



                                                                  300
 
                                


A second objection to the Senate, as a court of impeachments, is, that it contributes to an undue
accumulation of power in that body, tending to give to the government a countenance too
aristocratic. The Senate, it is observed, is to have concurrent authority with the Executive in the
formation of treaties and in the appointment to offices: if, say the objectors, to these prerogatives
is added that of deciding in all cases of impeachment, it will give a decided predominancy to
senatorial influence. To an objection so little precise in itself, it is not easy to find a very precise
answer. Where is the measure or criterion to which we can appeal, for determining what will
give the Senate too much, too little, or barely the proper degree of influence? Will it not be more
safe, as well as more simple, to dismiss such vague and uncertain calculations, to examine each
power by itself, and to decide, on general principles, where it may be deposited with most
advantage and least inconvenience?

If we take this course, it will lead to a more intelligible, if not to a more certain result. The
disposition of the power of making treaties, which has obtained in the plan of the convention,
will, then, if I mistake not, appear to be fully justified by the considerations stated in a former
number, and by others which will occur under the next head of our inquiries. The expediency of
the junction of the Senate with the Executive, in the power of appointing to offices, will, I trust,
be placed in a light not less satisfactory, in the disquisitions under the same head. And I flatter
myself the observations in my last paper must have gone no inconsiderable way towards proving
that it was not easy, if practicable, to find a more fit receptacle for the power of determining
impeachments, than that which has been chosen. If this be truly the case, the hypothetical dread
of the too great weight of the Senate ought to be discarded from our reasonings.

But this hypothesis, such as it is, has already been refuted in the remarks applied to the duration
in office prescribed for the senators. It was by them shown, as well on the credit of historical
examples, as from the reason of the thing, that the most popular branch of every government,
partaking of the republican genius, by being generally the favorite of the people, will be as
generally a full match, if not an overmatch, for every other member of the Government.

But independent of this most active and operative principle, to secure the equilibrium of the
national House of Representatives, the plan of the convention has provided in its favor several
important counterpoises to the additional authorities to be conferred upon the Senate. The
exclusive privilege of originating money bills will belong to the House of Representatives. The
same house will possess the sole right of instituting impeachments: is not this a complete
counterbalance to that of determining them? The same house will be the umpire in all elections
of the President, which do not unite the suffrages of a majority of the whole number of electors;
a case which it cannot be doubted will sometimes, if not frequently, happen. The constant
possibility of the thing must be a fruitful source of influence to that body. The more it is
contemplated, the more important will appear this ultimate though contingent power, of deciding
the competitions of the most illustrious citizens of the Union, for the first office in it. It would
not perhaps be rash to predict, that as a mean of influence it will be found to outweigh all the
peculiar attributes of the Senate.




                                                                     301
 
                              


A third objection to the Senate as a court of impeachments, is drawn from the agency they are to
have in the appointments to office. It is imagined that they would be too indulgent judges of the
conduct of men, in whose official creation they had participated. The principle of this objection
would condemn a practice, which is to be seen in all the State governments, if not in all the
governments with which we are acquainted: I mean that of rendering those who hold offices
during pleasure, dependent on the pleasure of those who appoint them. With equal plausibility
might it be alleged in this case, that the favoritism of the latter would always be an asylum for
the misbehavior of the former. But that practice, in contradiction to this principle, proceeds upon
the presumption, that the responsibility of those who appoint, for the fitness and competency of
the persons on whom they bestow their choice, and the interest they will have in the respectable
and prosperous administration of affairs, will inspire a sufficient disposition to dismiss from a
share in it all such who, by their conduct, shall have proved themselves unworthy of the
confidence reposed in them. Though facts may not always correspond with this presumption, yet
if it be, in the main, just, it must destroy the supposition that the Senate, who will merely
sanction the choice of the Executive, should feel a bias, towards the objects of that choice, strong
enough to blind them to the evidences of guilt so extraordinary, as to have induced the
representatives of the nation to become its accusers.

If any further arguments were necessary to evince the improbability of such a bias, it might be
found in the nature of the agency of the Senate in the business of appointments. It will be the
office of the President to nominate, and, with the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint.
There will, of course, be no exertion of choice on the part of the Senate. They may defeat one
choice of the Executive, and oblige him to make another; but they cannot themselves choose —
they can only ratify or reject the choice of the President. They might even entertain a preference
to some other person, at the very moment they were assenting to the one proposed, because there
might be no positive ground of opposition to him; and they could not be sure, if they withheld
their assent, that the subsequent nomination would fall upon their own favorite, or upon any
other person in their estimation more meritorious than the one rejected. Thus it could hardly
happen, that the majority of the Senate would feel any other complacency towards the object of
an appointment than such as the appearances of merit might inspire, and the proofs of the want of
it destroy.

A fourth objection to the Senate in the capacity of a court of impeachments, is derived from its
union with the Executive in the power of making treaties. This, it has been said, would constitute
the senators their own judges, in every case of a corrupt or perfidious execution of that trust.
After having combined with the Executive in betraying the interests of the nation in a ruinous
treaty, what prospect, it is asked, would there be of their being made to suffer the punishment
they would deserve, when they were themselves to decide upon the accusation brought against
them for the treachery of which they have been guilty?

This objection has been circulated with more earnestness and with greater show of reason than
any other which has appeared against this part of the plan; and yet I am deceived if it does not
rest upon an erroneous foundation.



                                                                 302
 
                               



The security essentially intended by the Constitution against corruption and treachery in the
formation of treaties, is to be sought for in the numbers and characters of those who are to make
them. The JOINT AGENCY of the Chief Magistrate of the Union, and of two thirds of the
members of a body selected by the collective wisdom of the legislatures of the several States, is
designed to be the pledge for the fidelity of the national councils in this particular. The
convention might with propriety have meditated the punishment of the Executive, for a deviation
from the instructions of the Senate, or a want of integrity in the conduct of the negotiations
committed to him; they might also have had in view the punishment of a few leading individuals
in the Senate, who should have prostituted their influence in that body as the mercenary
instruments of foreign corruption: but they could not, with more or with equal propriety, have
contemplated the impeachment and punishment of two thirds of the Senate, consenting to an
improper treaty, than of a majority of that or of the other branch of the national legislature,
consenting to a pernicious or unconstitutional law — a principle which, I believe, has never been
admitted into any government. How, in fact, could a majority in the House of Representatives
impeach themselves? Not better, it is evident, than two thirds of the Senate might try themselves.
And yet what reason is there, that a majority of the House of Representatives, sacrificing the
interests of the society by an unjust and tyrannical act of legislation, should escape with
impunity, more than two thirds of the Senate, sacrificing the same interests in an injurious treaty
with a foreign power? The truth is, that in all such cases it is essential to the freedom and to the
necessary independence of the deliberations of the body, that the members of it should be exempt
from punishment for acts done in a collective capacity; and the security to the society must
depend on the care which is taken to confide the trust to proper hands, to make it their interest to
execute it with fidelity, and to make it as difficult as possible for them to combine in any interest
opposite to that of the public good.

So far as might concern the misbehavior of the Executive in perverting the instructions or
contravening the views of the Senate, we need not be apprehensive of the want of a disposition in
that body to punish the abuse of their confidence or to vindicate their own authority. We may
thus far count upon their pride, if not upon their virtue. And so far even as might concern the
corruption of leading members, by whose arts and influence the majority may have been
inveigled into measures odious to the community, if the proofs of that corruption should be
satisfactory, the usual propensity of human nature will warrant us in concluding that there would
be commonly no defect of inclination in the body to divert the public resentment from
themselves by a ready sacrifice of the authors of their mismanagement and disgrace.




                                                                 303
 
                               



Federalist No. 67 - The Executive Department
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Tuesday, March 11, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE constitution of the executive department of the proposed government, claims next our
attention.

There is hardly any part of the system which could have been attended with greater difficulty in
the arrangement of it than this; and there is, perhaps, none which has been inveighed against with
less candor or criticised with less judgment.

Here the writers against the Constitution seem to have taken pains to signalize their talent of
misrepresentation. Calculating upon the aversion of the people to monarchy, they have
endeavored to enlist all their jealousies and apprehensions in opposition to the intended President
of the United States; not merely as the embryo, but as the full-grown progeny, of that detested
parent. To establish the pretended affinity, they have not scrupled to draw resources even from
the regions of fiction. The authorities of a magistrate, in few instances greater, in some instances
less, than those of a governor of New York, have been magnified into more than royal
prerogatives. He has been decorated with attributes superior in dignity and splendor to those of a
king of Great Britain. He has been shown to us with the diadem sparkling on his brow and the
imperial purple flowing in his train. He has been seated on a throne surrounded with minions and
mistresses, giving audience to the envoys of foreign potentates, in all the supercilious pomp of
majesty. The images of Asiatic despotism and voluptuousness have scarcely been wanting to
crown the exaggerated scene. We have been taught to tremble at the terrific visages of murdering
janizaries, and to blush at the unveiled mysteries of a future seraglio.

Attempts so extravagant as these to disfigure or, it might rather be said, to metamorphose the
object, render it necessary to take an accurate view of its real nature and form: in order as well to
ascertain its true aspect and genuine appearance, as to unmask the disingenuity and expose the
fallacy of the counterfeit resemblances which have been so insidiously, as well as industriously,
propagated.

In the execution of this task, there is no man who would not find it an arduous effort either to
behold with moderation, or to treat with seriousness, the devices, not less weak than wicked,
which have been contrived to pervert the public opinion in relation to the subject. They so far
exceed the usual though unjustifiable licenses of party artifice, that even in a disposition the most
candid and tolerant, they must force the sentiments which favor an indulgent construction of the
conduct of political adversaries to give place to a voluntary and unreserved indignation. It is
impossible not to bestow the imputation of deliberate imposture and deception upon the gross



                                                                  304
 
                               


pretense of a similitude between a king of Great Britain and a magistrate of the character marked
out for that of the President of the United States. It is still more impossible to withhold that
imputation from the rash and barefaced expedients which have been employed to give success to
the attempted imposition.

In one instance, which I cite as a sample of the general spirit, the temerity has proceeded so far
as to ascribe to the President of the United States a power which by the instrument reported is
expressly allotted to the Executives of the individual States. I mean the power of filling casual
vacancies in the Senate.

This bold experiment upon the discernment of his countrymen has been hazarded by a writer
who (whatever may be his real merit) has had no inconsiderable share in the applauses of his
party; and who, upon this false and unfounded suggestion, has built a series of observations
equally false and unfounded. Let him now be confronted with the evidence of the fact, and let
him, if he be able, justify or extenuate the shameful outrage he has offered to the dictates of truth
and to the rules of fair dealing.

The second clause of the second section of the second article empowers the President of the
United States "to nominate, and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint
ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, judges of the Supreme Court, and all other
officers of United States whose appointments are not in the Constitution otherwise provided for,
and which shall be established by law." Immediately after this clause follows another in these
words: "The President shall have power to fill up all vacancies that may happen during the recess
of the Senate, by granting commissions which shall expire at the end of their next session." It is
from this last provision that the pretended power of the President to fill vacancies in the Senate
has been deduced. A slight attention to the connection of the clauses, and to the obvious meaning
of the terms, will satisfy us that the deduction is not even colorable.

The first of these two clauses, it is clear, only provides a mode for appointing such officers,
"whose appointments are not otherwise provided for in the Constitution, and which shall be
established by law"; of course it cannot extend to the appointments of senators, whose
appointments are otherwise provided for in the Constitution, and who are established by the
Constitution, and will not require a future establishment by law. This position will hardly be
contested.

The last of these two clauses, it is equally clear, cannot be understood to comprehend the power
of filling vacancies in the Senate, for the following reasons: — First. The relation in which that
clause stands to the other, which declares the general mode of appointing officers of the United
States, denotes it to be nothing more than a supplement to the other, for the purpose of
establishing an auxiliary method of appointment, in cases to which the general method was
inadequate. The ordinary power of appointment is confined to the President and Senate jointly,
and can therefore only be exercised during the session of the Senate; but as it would have been
improper to oblige this body to be continually in session for the appointment of officers and as



                                                                  305
 
                               


vacancies might happen in their recess, which it might be necessary for the public service to fill
without delay, the succeeding clause is evidently intended to authorize the President, singly, to
make temporary appointments "during the recess of the Senate, by granting commissions which
shall expire at the end of their next session." Second. If this clause is to be considered as
supplementary to the one which precedes, the vacancies of which it speaks must be construed to
relate to the "officers" described in the preceding one; and this, we have seen, excludes from its
description the members of the Senate. Third. The time within which the power is to operate,
"during the recess of the Senate," and the duration of the appointments, "to the end of the next
session" of that body, conspire to elucidate the sense of the provision, which, if it had been
intended to comprehend senators, would naturally have referred the temporary power of filling
vacancies to the recess of the State legislatures, who are to make the permanent appointments,
and not to the recess of the national Senate, who are to have no concern in those appointments;
and would have extended the duration in office of the temporary senators to the next session of
the legislature of the State, in whose representation the vacancies had happened, instead of
making it to expire at the end of the ensuing session of the national Senate. The circumstances of
the body authorized to make the permanent appointments would, of course, have governed the
modification of a power which related to the temporary appointments; and as the national Senate
is the body, whose situation is alone contemplated in the clause upon which the suggestion under
examination has been founded, the vacancies to which it alludes can only be deemed to respect
those officers in whose appointment that body has a concurrent agency with the President. But
last, the first and second clauses of the third section of the first article, not only obviate all
possibility of doubt, but destroy the pretext of misconception. The former provides, that "the
Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State, chosen by the
legislature thereof for six years"; and the latter directs, that, "if vacancies in that body should
happen by resignation or otherwise, during the recess of the legislature of ANY STATE, the
Executive THEREOF may make temporary appointments until the next meeting of the
legislature, which shall then fill such vacancies." Here is an express power given, in clear and
unambiguous terms, to the State Executives, to fill casual vacancies in the Senate, by temporary
appointments; which not only invalidates the supposition, that the clause before considered could
have been intended to confer that power upon the President of the United States, but proves that
this supposition, destitute as it is even of the merit of plausibility, must have originated in an
intention to deceive the people, too palpable to be obscured by sophistry, too atrocious to be
palliated by hypocrisy.

I have taken the pains to select this instance of misrepresentation, and to place it in a clear and
strong light, as an unequivocal proof of the unwarrantable arts which are practiced to prevent a
fair and impartial judgment of the real merits of the Constitution submitted to the consideration
of the people. Nor have I scrupled, in so flagrant a case, to allow myself a severity of
animadversion little congenial with the general spirit of these papers. I hesitate not to submit it to
the decision of any candid and honest adversary of the proposed government, whether language
can furnish epithets of too much asperity, for so shameless and so prostitute an attempt to impose
on the citizens of America.




                                                                  306
 
                              



Federalist No. 68 - The Mode of Electing the President
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, March 12, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE mode of appointment of the Chief Magistrate of the United States is almost the only part of
the system, of any consequence, which has escaped without severe censure, or which has
received the slightest mark of approbation from its opponents. The most plausible of these, who
has appeared in print, has even deigned to admit that the election of the President is pretty well
guarded. I venture somewhat further, and hesitate not to affirm, that if the manner of it be not
perfect, it is at least excellent. It unites in an eminent degree all the advantages, the union of
which was to be wished for.

It was desirable that the sense of the people should operate in the choice of the person to whom
so important a trust was to be confided. This end will be answered by committing the right of
making it, not to any preestablished body, but to men chosen by the people for the special
purpose, and at the particular conjuncture.

It was equally desirable, that the immediate election should be made by men most capable of
analyzing the qualities adapted to the station, and acting under circumstances favorable to
deliberation, and to a judicious combination of all the reasons and inducements which were
proper to govern their choice. A small number of persons, selected by their fellow-citizens from
the general mass, will be most likely to possess the information and discernment requisite to such
complicated investigations.

It was also peculiarly desirable to afford as little opportunity as possible to tumult and disorder.
This evil was not least to be dreaded in the election of a magistrate, who was to have so
important an agency in the administration of the government as the President of the United
States. But the precautions which have been so happily concerted in the system under
consideration, promise an effectual security against this mischief. The choice of several, to form
an intermediate body of electors, will be much less apt to convulse the community with any
extraordinary or violent movements, than the choice of one who was himself to be the final
object of the public wishes. And as the electors, chosen in each State, are to assemble and vote in
the State in which they are chosen, this detached and divided situation will expose them much
less to heats and ferments, which might be communicated from them to the people, than if they
were all to be convened at one time, in one place.

Nothing was more to be desired than that every practicable obstacle should be opposed to cabal,
intrigue, and corruption. These most deadly adversaries of republican government might
naturally have been expected to make their approaches from more than one querter, but chiefly



                                                                 307
 
                               


from the desire in foreign powers to gain an improper ascendant in our councils. How could they
better gratify this, than by raising a creature of their own to the chief magistracy of the Union?
But the convention have guarded against all danger of this sort, with the most provident and
judicious attention. They have not made the appointment of the President to depend on any
preexisting bodies of men, who might be tampered with beforehand to prostitute their votes; but
they have referred it in the first instance to an immediate act of the people of America, to be
exerted in the choice of persons for the temporary and sole purpose of making the appointment.
And they have excluded from eligibility to this trust, all those who from situation might be
suspected of too great devotion to the President in office. No senator, representative, or other
person holding a place of trust or profit under the United States, can be of the numbers of the
electors. Thus without corrupting the body of the people, the immediate agents in the election
will at least enter upon the task free from any sinister bias. Their transient existence, and their
detached situation, already taken notice of, afford a satisfactory prospect of their continuing so,
to the conclusion of it. The business of corruption, when it is to embrace so considerable a
number of men, requires time as well as means. Nor would it be found easy suddenly to embark
them, dispersed as they would be over thirteen States, in any combinations founded upon
motives, which though they could not properly be denominated corrupt, might yet be of a nature
to mislead them from their duty.

Another and no less important desideratum was, that the Executive should be independent for his
continuance in office on all but the people themselves. He might otherwise be tempted to
sacrifice his duty to his complaisance for those whose favor was necessary to the duration of his
official consequence. This advantage will also be secured, by making his re-election to depend
on a special body of representatives, deputed by the society for the single purpose of making the
important choice.

All these advantages will happily combine in the plan devised by the convention; which is, that
the people of each State shall choose a number of persons as electors, equal to the number of
senators and representatives of such State in the national government, who shall assemble within
the State, and vote for some fit person as President. Their votes, thus given, are to be transmitted
to the seat of the national government, and the person who may happen to have a majority of the
whole number of votes will be the President. But as a majority of the votes might not always
happen to centre in one man, and as it might be unsafe to permit less than a majority to be
conclusive, it is provided that, in such a contingency, the House of Representatives shall select
out of the candidates who shall have the five highest number of votes, the man who in their
opinion may be best qualified for the office.

The process of election affords a moral certainty, that the office of President will never fall to the
lot of any man who is not in an eminent degree endowed with the requisite qualifications.
Talents for low intrigue, and the little arts of popularity, may alone suffice to elevate a man to the
first honors in a single State; but it will require other talents, and a different kind of merit, to
establish him in the esteem and confidence of the whole Union, or of so considerable a portion of
it as would be necessary to make him a successful candidate for the distinguished office of



                                                                  308
 
                              


President of the United States. It will not be too strong to say, that there will be a constant
probability of seeing the station filled by characters pre-eminent for ability and virtue. And this
will be thought no inconsiderable recommendation of the Constitution, by those who are able to
estimate the share which the executive in every government must necessarily have in its good or
ill administration. Though we cannot acquiesce in the political heresy of the poet who says:

"For forms of government let fools contest –
That which is best administered is best," –

yet we may safely pronounce, that the true test of a good government is its aptitude and tendency
to produce a good administration.

The Vice-President is to be chosen in the same manner with the President; with this difference,
that the Senate is to do, in respect to the former, what is to be done by the House of
Representatives, in respect to the latter.

The appointment of an extraordinary person, as Vice-President, has been objected to as
superfluous, if not mischievous. It has been alleged, that it would have been preferable to have
authorized the Senate to elect out of their own body an officer answering that description. But
two considerations seem to justify the ideas of the convention in this respect. One is, that to
secure at all times the possibility of a definite resolution of the body, it is necessary that the
President should have only a casting vote. And to take the senator of any State from his seat as
senator, to place him in that of President of the Senate, would be to exchange, in regard to the
State from which he came, a constant for a contingent vote. The other consideration is, that as the
Vice-President may occasionally become a substitute for the President, in the supreme executive
magistracy, all the reasons which recommend the mode of election prescribed for the one, apply
with great if not with equal force to the manner of appointing the other. It is remarkable that in
this, as in most other instances, the objection which is made would lie against the constitution of
this State. We have a Lieutenant-Governor, chosen by the people at large, who presides in the
Senate, and is the constitutional substitute for the Governor, in casualties similar to those which
would authorize the Vice-President to exercise the authorities and discharge the duties of the
President.




                                                                 309
 
                               



Federalist No. 69 - The Real Character of the Executive
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Friday, March 14, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

I PROCEED now to trace the real characters of the proposed Executive, as they are marked out
in the plan of the convention. This will serve to place in a strong light the unfairness of the
representations which have been made in regard to it.

The first thing which strikes our attention is, that the executive authority, with few exceptions, is
to be vested in a single magistrate. This will scarcely, however, be considered as a point upon
which any comparison can be grounded; for if, in this particular, there be a resemblance to the
king of Great Britain, there is not less a resemblance to the Grand Seignior, to the khan of
Tartary, to the Man of the Seven Mountains, or to the governor of New York.

That magistrate is to be elected for four years; and is to be re-eligible as often as the people of
the United States shall think him worthy of their confidence. In these circumstances there is a
total dissimilitude between him and a king of Great Britain, who is an hereditary monarch,
possessing the crown as a patrimony descendible to his heirs forever; but there is a close analogy
between him and a governor of New York, who is elected for three years, and is re-eligible
without limitation or intermission. If we consider how much less time would be requisite for
establishing a dangerous influence in a single State, than for establishing a like influence
throughout the United States, we must conclude that a duration of four years for the Chief
Magistrate of the Union is a degree of permanency far less to be dreaded in that office, than a
duration of three years for a corresponding office in a single State.

The President of the United States would be liable to be impeached, tried, and, upon conviction
of treason, bribery, or other high crimes or misdemeanors, removed from office; and would
afterwards be liable to prosecution and punishment in the ordinary course of law. The person of
the king of Great Britain is sacred and inviolable; there is no constitutional tribunal to which he
is amenable; no punishment to which he can be subjected without involving the crisis of a
national revolution. In this delicate and important circumstance of personal responsibility, the
President of Confederated America would stand upon no better ground than a governor of New
York, and upon worse ground than the governors of Maryland and Delaware.

The President of the United States is to have power to return a bill, which shall have passed the
two branches of the legislature, for reconsideration; and the bill so returned is to become a law,
if, upon that reconsideration, it be approved by two thirds of both houses. The king of Great
Britain, on his part, has an absolute negative upon the acts of the two houses of Parliament. The
disuse of that power for a considerable time past does not affect the reality of its existence; and is



                                                                  310
 
                               


to be ascribed wholly to the crown’s having found the means of substituting influence to
authority, or the art of gaining a majority in one or the other of the two houses, to the necessity of
exerting a prerogative which could seldom be exerted without hazarding some degree of national
agitation. The qualified negative of the President differs widely from this absolute negative of
the British sovereign; and tallies exactly with the revisionary authority of the council of revision
of this State, of which the governor is a constituent part. In this respect the power of the
President would exceed that of the governor of New York, because the former would possess,
singly, what the latter shares with the chancellor and judges; but it would be precisely the same
with that of the governor of Massachusetts, whose constitution, as to this article, seems to have
been the original from which the convention have copied.

The President is to be the "commander-in-chief of the army and navy of the United States, and of
the militia of the several States, when called into the actual service of the United States. He is to
have power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States, except in cases
of impeachment; to recommend to the consideration of Congress such measures as he shall judge
necessary and expedient; to convene, on extraordinary occasions, both houses of the legislature,
or either of them, and, in case of disagreement between them with respect to the time of
adjournment, to adjourn them to such time as he shall think proper; to take care that the laws be
faithfully executed; and to commission all officers of the United States." In most of these
particulars, the power of the President will resemble equally that of the king of Great Britain and
of the governor of New York. The most material points of difference are these: — First. The
President will have only the occasional command of such part of the militia of the nation as by
legislative provision may be called into the actual service of the Union. The king of Great Britain
and the governor of New York have at all times the entire command of all the militia within their
several jurisdictions. In this article, therefore, the power of the President would be inferior to that
of either the monarch or the governor. Second. The President is to be commander-in-chief of the
army and navy of the United States. In this respect his authority would be nominally the same
with that of the king of Great Britain, but in substance much inferior to it. It would amount to
nothing more than the supreme command and direction of the military and naval forces, as first
General and admiral of the Confederacy; while that of the British king extends to the declaring of
war and to the raising and regulating of fleets and armies — all which, by the Constitution under
consideration, would appertain to the legislature. The governor of New York, on the other hand,
is by the constitution of the State vested only with the command of its militia and navy. But the
constitutions of several of the States expressly declare their governors to be commanders-in-
chief, as well of the army as navy; and it may well be a question, whether those of New
Hampshire and Massachusetts, in particular, do not, in this instance, confer larger powers upon
their respective governors, than could be claimed by a President of the United States. Third. The
power of the President, in respect to pardons, would extend to all cases, except those of
impeachment. The governor of New York may pardon in all cases, even in those of
impeachment, except for treason and murder. Is not the power of the governor, in this article, on
a calculation of political consequences, greater than that of the President? All conspiracies and
plots against the government, which have not been matured into actual treason, may be screened
from punishment of every kind, by the interposition of the prerogative of pardoning. If a



                                                                   311
 
                              


governor of New York, therefore, should be at the head of any such conspiracy, until the design
had been ripened into actual hostility he could insure his accomplices and adherents an entire
impunity. A President of the Union, on the other hand, though he may even pardon treason, when
prosecuted in the ordinary course of law, could shelter no offender, in any degree, from the
effects of impeachment and conviction. Would not the prospect of a total indemnity for all the
preliminary steps be a greater temptation to undertake and persevere in an enterprise against the
public liberty, than the mere prospect of an exemption from death and confiscation, if the final
execution of the design, upon an actual appeal to arms, should miscarry? Would this last
expectation have any influence at all, when the probability was computed, that the person who
was to afford that exemption might himself be involved in the consequences of the measure, and
might be incapacitated by his agency in it from affording the desired impunity? The better to
judge of this matter, it will be necessary to recollect, that, by the proposed Constitution, the
offense of treason is limited “to levying war upon the United States, and adhering to their
enemies, giving them aid and comfort”; and that by the laws of New York it is confined within
similar bounds. Fourth. The President can only adjourn the national legislature in the single case
of disagreement about the time of adjournment. The British monarch may prorogue or even
dissolve the Parliament. The governor of New York may also prorogue the legislature of this
State for a limited time; a power which, in certain situations, may be employed to very important
purposes.

The President is to have power, with the advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties,
provided two thirds of the senators present concur. The king of Great Britain is the sole and
absolute representative of the nation in all foreign transactions. He can of his own accord make
treaties of peace, commerce, alliance, and of every other description. It has been insinuated, that
his authority in this respect is not conclusive, and that his conventions with foreign powers are
subject to the revision, and stand in need of the ratification, of Parliament. But I believe this
doctrine was never heard of, until it was broached upon the present occasion. Every jurist of that
kingdom, and every other man acquainted with its Constitution, knows, as an established fact,
that the prerogative of making treaties exists in the crown in its utmost plentitude; and that the
compacts entered into by the royal authority have the most complete legal validity and
perfection, independent of any other sanction. The Parliament, it is true, is sometimes seen
employing itself in altering the existing laws to conform them to the stipulations in a new treaty;
and this may have possibly given birth to the imagination, that its co-operation was necessary to
the obligatory efficacy of the treaty. But this parliamentary interposition proceeds from a
different cause: from the necessity of adjusting a most artificial and intricate system of revenue
and commercial laws, to the changes made in them by the operation of the treaty; and of adapting
new provisions and precautions to the new state of things, to keep the machine from running into
disorder. In this respect, therefore, there is no comparison between the intended power of the
President and the actual power of the British sovereign. The one can perform alone what the
other can do only with the concurrence of a branch of the legislature. It must be admitted, that, in
this instance, the power of the federal Executive would exceed that of any State Executive. But
this arises naturally from the sovereign power which relates to treaties. If the Confederacy were




                                                                312
 
                               


to be dissolved, it would become a question, whether the Executives of the several States were
not solely invested with that delicate and important prerogative.

The President is also to be authorized to receive ambassadors and other public ministers. This,
though it has been a rich theme of declamation, is more a matter of dignity than of authority. It is
a circumstance which will be without consequence in the administration of the government; and
it was far more convenient that it should be arranged in this manner, than that there should be a
necessity of convening the legislature, or one of its branches, upon every arrival of a foreign
minister, though it were merely to take the place of a departed predecessor.

The President is to nominate, and, with the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint
ambassadors and other public ministers, judges of the Supreme Court, and in general all officers
of the United States established by law, and whose appointments are not otherwise provided for
by the Constitution. The king of Great Britain is emphatically and truly styled the fountain of
honor. He not only appoints to all offices, but can create offices. He can confer titles of nobility
at pleasure; and has the disposal of an immense number of church preferments. There is
evidently a great inferiority in the power of the President, in this particular, to that of the British
king; nor is it equal to that of the governor of New York, if we are to interpret the meaning of the
constitution of the State by the practice which has obtained under it. The power of appointment
is with us lodged in a council, composed of the governor and four members of the Senate, chosen
by the Assembly. The governor claims, and has frequently exercised, the right of nomination,
and is entitled to a casting vote in the appointment. If he really has the right of nominating, his
authority is in this respect equal to that of the President, and exceeds it in the article of the
casting vote. In the national government, if the Senate should be divided, no appointment could
be made; in the government of New York, if the council should be divided, the governor can turn
the scale, and confirm his own nomination. If we compare the publicity which must necessarily
attend the mode of appointment by the President and an entire branch of the national legislature,
with the privacy in the mode of appointment by the governor of New York, closeted in a secret
apartment with at most four, and frequently with only two persons; and if we at the same time
consider how much more easy it must be to influence the small number of which a council of
appointment consists, than the considerable number of which the national Senate would consist,
we cannot hesitate to pronounce that the power of the chief magistrate of this State, in the
disposition of offices, must, in practice, be greatly superior to that of the Chief Magistrate of the
Union.

Hence it appears that, except as to the concurrent authority of the President in the article of
treaties, it would be difficult to determine whether that magistrate would, in the aggregate,
possess more or less power than the Governor of New York. And it appears yet more
unequivocally, that there is no pretense for the parallel which has been attempted between him
and the king of Great Britain. But to render the contrast in this respect still more striking, it may
be of use to throw the principal circumstances of dissimilitude into a closer group.




                                                                   313
 
                              


The President of the United States would be an officer elected by the people for four years; the
king of Great Britain is a perpetual and hereditary prince. The one would be amenable to
personal punishment and disgrace; the person of the other is sacred and inviolable. The one
would have a qualified negative upon the acts of the legislative body; the other has an absolute
negative. The one would have a right to command the military and naval forces of the nation; the
other, in addition to this right, possesses that of declaring war, and of raising and regulating
fleets and armies by his own authority. The one would have a concurrent power with a branch of
the legislature in the formation of treaties; the other is the sole possessor of the power of making
treaties. The one would have a like concurrent authority in appointing to offices; the other is the
sole author of all appointments. The one can confer no privileges whatever; the other can make
denizens of aliens, noblemen of commoners; can erect corporations with all the rights incident to
corporate bodies. The one can prescribe no rules concerning the commerce or currency of the
nation; the other is in several respects the arbiter of commerce, and in this capacity can establish
markets and fairs, can regulate weights and measures, can lay embargoes for a limited time, can
coin money, can authorize or prohibit the circulation of foreign coin. The one has no particle of
spiritual jurisdiction; the other is the supreme head and governor of the national church! What
answer shall we give to those who would persuade us that things so unlike resemble each other?
The same that ought to be given to those who tell us that a government, the whole power of
which would be in the hands of the elective and periodical servants of the people, is an
aristocracy, a monarchy, and a despotism.




                                                                 314
 
                               



Federalist No. 70 - The Executive Department Further Considered
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Saturday, March 15, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THERE is an idea, which is not without its advocates, that a vigorous Executive is inconsistent
with the genius of republican government. The enlightened well-wishers to this species of
government must at least hope that the supposition is destitute of foundation; since they can
never admit its truth, without at the same time admitting the condemnation of their own
principles. Energy in the Executive is a leading character in the definition of good government. It
is essential to the protection of the community against foreign attacks; it is not less essential to
the steady administration of the laws; to the protection of property against those irregular and
high-handed combinations which sometimes interrupt the ordinary course of justice; to the
security of liberty against the enterprises and assaults of ambition, of faction, and of anarchy.
Every man the least conversant in Roman story, knows how often that republic was obliged to
take refuge in the absolute power of a single man, under the formidable title of Dictator, as well
against the intrigues of ambitious individuals who aspired to the tyranny, and the seditions of
whole classes of the community whose conduct threatened the existence of all government, as
against the invasions of external enemies who menaced the conquest and destruction of Rome.

There can be no need, however, to multiply arguments or examples on this head. A feeble
Executive implies a feeble execution of the government. A feeble execution is but another phrase
for a bad execution; and a government ill executed, whatever it may be in theory, must be, in
practice, a bad government.

Taking it for granted, therefore, that all men of sense will agree in the necessity of an energetic
Executive, it will only remain to inquire, what are the ingredients which constitute this energy?
How far can they be combined with those other ingredients which constitute safety in the
republican sense? And how far does this combination characterize the plan which has been
reported by the convention?

The ingredients which constitute energy in the Executive are, first, unity; secondly, duration;
thirdly, an adequate provision for its support; fourthly, competent powers.

The ingredients which constitute safety in the republican sense are, first, a due dependence on
the people, secondly, a due responsibility.

Those politicians and statesmen who have been the most celebrated for the soundness of their
principles and for the justice of their views, have declared in favor of a single Executive and a
numerous legislature. They have with great propriety, considered energy as the most necessary



                                                                  315
 
                               


qualification of the former, and have regarded this as most applicable to power in a single hand,
while they have, with equal propriety, considered the latter as best adapted to deliberation and
wisdom, and best calculated to conciliate the confidence of the people and to secure their
privileges and interests.

That unity is conducive to energy will not be disputed. Decision, activity, secrecy, and despatch
will generally characterize the proceedings of one man in a much more eminent degree than the
proceedings of any greater number; and in proportion as the number is increased, these qualities
will be diminished.

This unity may be destroyed in two ways: either by vesting the power in two or more magistrates
of equal dignity and authority; or by vesting it ostensibly in one man, subject, in whole or in part,
to the control and co-operation of others, in the capacity of counsellors to him. Of the first, the
two Consuls of Rome may serve as an example; of the last, we shall find examples in the
constitutions of several of the States. New York and New Jersey, if I recollect right, are the only
States which have intrusted the executive authority wholly to single men. Both these methods of
destroying the unity of the Executive have their partisans; but the votaries of an executive
council are the most numerous. They are both liable, if not to equal, to similar objections, and
may in most lights be examined in conjunction.

The experience of other nations will afford little instruction on this head. As far, however, as it
teaches any thing, it teaches us not to be enamoured of plurality in the Executive. We have seen
that the Achaeans, on an experiment of two Praetors, were induced to abolish one. The Roman
history records many instances of mischiefs to the republic from the dissensions between the
Consuls, and between the military Tribunes, who were at times substituted for the Consuls. But it
gives us no specimens of any peculiar advantages derived to the state from the circumstance of
the plurality of those magistrates. That the dissensions between them were not more frequent or
more fatal, is a matter of astonishment, until we advert to the singular position in which the
republic was almost continually placed, and to the prudent policy pointed out by the
circumstances of the state, and pursued by the Consuls, of making a division of the government
between them. The patricians engaged in a perpetual struggle with the plebeians for the
preservation of their ancient authorities and dignities; the Consuls, who were generally chosen
out of the former body, were commonly united by the personal interest they had in the defense of
the privileges of their order. In addition to this motive of union, after the arms of the republic had
considerably expanded the bounds of its empire, it became an established custom with the
Consuls to divide the administration between themselves by lot — one of them remaining at
Rome to govern the city and its environs, the other taking the command in the more distant
provinces. This expedient must, no doubt, have had great influence in preventing those collisions
and rivalships which might otherwise have embroiled the peace of the republic.

But quitting the dim light of historical research, attaching ourselves purely to the dictates of
reason and good sense, we shall discover much greater cause to reject than to approve the idea of
plurality in the Executive, under any modification whatever.



                                                                  316
 
                               



Wherever two or more persons are engaged in any common enterprise or pursuit, there is always
danger of difference of opinion. If it be a public trust or office, in which they are clothed with
equal dignity and authority, there is peculiar danger of personal emulation and even animosity.
From either, and especially from all these causes, the most bitter dissensions are apt to spring.
Whenever these happen, they lessen the respectability, weaken the authority, and distract the
plans and operation of those whom they divide. If they should unfortunately assail the supreme
executive magistracy of a country, consisting of a plurality of persons, they might impede or
frustrate the most important measures of the government, in the most critical emergencies of the
state. And what is still worse, they might split the community into the most violent and
irreconcilable factions, adhering differently to the different individuals who composed the
magistracy.

Men often oppose a thing, merely because they have had no agency in planning it, or because it
may have been planned by those whom they dislike. But if they have been consulted, and have
happened to disapprove, opposition then becomes, in their estimation, an indispensable duty of
self-love. They seem to think themselves bound in honor, and by all the motives of personal
infallibility, to defeat the success of what has been resolved upon contrary to their sentiments.
Men of upright, benevolent tempers have too many opportunities of remarking, with horror, to
what desperate lengths this disposition is sometimes carried, and how often the great interests of
society are sacrificed to the vanity, to the conceit, and to the obstinacy of individuals, who have
credit enough to make their passions and their caprices interesting to mankind. Perhaps the
question now before the public may, in its consequences, afford melancholy proofs of the effects
of this despicable frailty, or rather detestable vice, in the human character.

Upon the principles of a free government, inconveniences from the source just mentioned must
necessarily be submitted to in the formation of the legislature; but it is unnecessary, and therefore
unwise, to introduce them into the constitution of the Executive. It is here too that they may be
most pernicious. In the legislature, promptitude of decision is oftener an evil than a benefit. The
differences of opinion, and the jarrings of parties in that department of the government, though
they may sometimes obstruct salutary plans, yet often promote deliberation and circumspection,
and serve to check excesses in the majority. When a resolution too is once taken, the opposition
must be at an end. That resolution is a law, and resistance to it punishable. But no favorable
circumstances palliate or atone for the disadvantages of dissension in the executive department.
Here, they are pure and unmixed. There is no point at which they cease to operate. They serve to
embarrass and weaken the execution of the plan or measure to which they relate, from the first
step to the final conclusion of it. They constantly counteract those qualities in the Executive
which are the most necessary ingredients in its composition — vigor and expedition, and this
without any counterbalancing good. In the conduct of war, in which the energy of the Executive
is the bulwark of the national security, every thing would be to be apprehended from its plurality.

It must be confessed that these observations apply with principal weight to the first case
supposed — that is, to a plurality of magistrates of equal dignity and authority a scheme, the



                                                                 317
 
                                


advocates for which are not likely to form a numerous sect; but they apply, though not with
equal, yet with considerable weight to the project of a council, whose concurrence is made
constitutionally necessary to the operations of the ostensible Executive. An artful cabal in that
council would be able to distract and to enervate the whole system of administration. If no such
cabal should exist, the mere diversity of views and opinions would alone be sufficient to tincture
the exercise of the executive authority with a spirit of habitual feebleness and dilatoriness.

[But one of the weightiest objections to a plurality in the Executive, and which lies as much
against the last as the first plan, is, that it tends to conceal faults and destroy responsibility.
Responsibility is of two kinds -- to censure and to punishment. The first is the more important of
the two, especially in an elective office. Man, in public trust, will much oftener act in such a
manner as to render him unworthy of being any longer trusted, than in such a manner as to make
him obnoxious to legal punishment. But the multiplication of the Executive adds to the difficulty
of detection in either case. It often becomes impossible, amidst mutual accusations, to determine
on whom the blame or the punishment of a pernicious measure, or series of pernicious measures,
ought really to fall. It is shifted from one to another with so much dexterity, and under such
plausible appearances, that the public opinion is left in suspense about the real author. The
circumstances which may have led to any national miscarriage or misfortune are sometimes so
complicated that, where there are a number of actors who may have had different degrees and
kinds of agency, though we may clearly see upon the whole that there has been mismanagement,
yet it may be impracticable to pronounce to whose account the evil which may have been
incurred is truly chargeable.]E1

[But one of the weightiest objections to a plurality in the Executive, and which lies as much
against the last as the first plan, is, that it tends to conceal faults and destroy responsibility.

Responsibility is of two kinds -- to censure and to punishment. The first is the more important of
the two, especially in an elective office. Man, in public trust, will much oftener act in such a
manner as to render him unworthy of being any longer trusted, than in such a manner as to make
him obnoxious to legal punishment. But the multiplication of the Executive adds to the difficulty
of detection in either case. It often becomes impossible, amidst mutual accusations, to determine
on whom the blame or the punishment of a pernicious measure, or series of pernicious measures,
ought really to fall. It is shifted from one to another with so much dexterity, and under such
plausible appearances, that the public opinion is left in suspense about the real author. The
circumstances which may have led to any national miscarriage or misfortune are sometimes so
complicated that, where there are a number of actors who may have had different degrees and
kinds of agency, though we may clearly see upon the whole that there has been mismanagement,
yet it may be impracticable to pronounce to whose account the evil which may have been
incurred is truly chargeable.]

“I was overruled by my council. The council were so divided in their opinions that it was
impossible to obtain any better resolution on the point.” These and similar pretexts are constantly
at hand, whether true or false. And who is there that will either take the trouble or incur the



                                                                     318
 
                               


odium, of a strict scrunity into the secret springs of the transaction? Should there be found a
citizen zealous enough to undertake the unpromising task, if there happen to be collusion
between the parties concerned, how easy it is to clothe the circumstances with so much
ambiguity, as to render it uncertain what was the precise conduct of any of those parties?

In the single instance in which the governor of this State is coupled with a council — that is, in
the appointment to offices, we have seen the mischiefs of it in the view now under consideration.
Scandalous appointments to important offices have been made. Some cases, indeed, have been so
flagrant that ALL PARTIES have agreed in the impropriety of the thing. When inquiry has been
made, the blame has been laid by the governor on the members of the council, who, on their part,
have charged it upon his nomination; while the people remain altogether at a loss to determine,
by whose influence their interests have been committed to hands so unqualified and so
manifestly improper. In tenderness to individuals, I forbear to descend to particulars.

It is evident from these considerations, that the plurality of the Executive tends to deprive the
people of the two greatest securities they can have for the faithful exercise of any delegated
power, first, the restraints of public opinion, which lose their efficacy, as well on account of the
division of the censure attendant on bad measures among a number, as on account of the
uncertainty on whom it ought to fall; and, second, the opportunity of discovering with facility
and clearness the misconduct of the persons they trust, in order either to their removal from
office or to their actual punishment in cases which admit of it.

In England, the king is a perpetual magistrate; and it is a maxim which has obtained for the sake
of the pub lic peace, that he is unaccountable for his administration, and his person sacred.
Nothing, therefore, can be wiser in that kingdom, than to annex to the king a constitutional
council, who may be responsible to the nation for the advice they give. Without this, there would
be no responsibility whatever in the executive department — an idea inadmissible in a free
government. But even there the king is not bound by the resolutions of his council, though they
are answerable for the advice they give. He is the absolute master of his own conduct in the
exercise of his office, and may observe or disregard the counsel given to him at his sole
discretion.

But in a republic, where every magistrate ought to be personally responsible for his behavior in
office the reason which in the British Constitution dictates the propriety of a council, not only
ceases to apply, but turns against the institution. In the monarchy of Great Britain, it furnishes a
substitute for the prohibited responsibility of the chief magistrate, which serves in some degree
as a hostage to the national justice for his good behavior. In the American republic, it would
serve to destroy, or would greatly diminish, the intended and necessary responsibility of the
Chief Magistrate himself.

The idea of a council to the Executive, which has so generally obtained in the State constitutions,
has been derived from that maxim of republican jealousy which considers power as safer in the
hands of a number of men than of a single man. If the maxim should be admitted to be applicable



                                                                  319
 
                               


to the case, I should contend that the advantage on that side would not counterbalance the
numerous disadvantages on the opposite side. But I do not think the rule at all applicable to the
executive power. I clearly concur in opinion, in this particular, with a writer whom the celebrated
Junius pronounces to be “deep, solid, and ingenious,” that “the executive power is more easily
confined when it is ONE“; that it is far more safe there should be a single object for the jealousy
and watchfulness of the people; and, in a word, that all multiplication of the Executive is rather
dangerous than friendly to liberty.

A little consideration will satisfy us, that the species of security sought for in the multiplication
of the Executive, is unattainable. Numbers must be so great as to render combination difficult, or
they are rather a source of danger than of security. The united credit and influence of several
individuals must be more formidable to liberty, than the credit and influence of either of them
separately. When power, therefore, is placed in the hands of so small a number of men, as to
admit of their interests and views being easily combined in a common enterprise, by an artful
leader, it becomes more liable to abuse, and more dangerous when abused, than if it be lodged in
the hands of one man; who, from the very circumstance of his being alone, will be more
narrowly watched and more readily suspected, and who cannot unite so great a mass of influence
as when he is associated with others. The Decemvirs of Rome, whose name denotes their
number, were more to be dreaded in their usurpation than any ONE of them would have been.
No person would think of proposing an Executive much more numerous than that body; from six
to a dozen have been suggested for the number of the council. The extreme of these numbers, is
not too great for an easy combination; and from such a combination America would have more
to fear, than from the ambition of any single individual. A council to a magistrate, who is himself
responsible for what he does, are generally nothing better than a clog upon his good intentions,
are often the instruments and accomplices of his bad and are almost always a cloak to his faults.

I forbear to dwell upon the subject of expense; though it be evident that if the council should be
numerous enough to answer the principal end aimed at by the institution, the salaries of the
members, who must be drawn from their homes to reside at the seat of government, would form
an item in the catalogue of public expenditures too serious to be incurred for an object of
equivocal utility.

I will only add that, prior to the appearance of the Constitution, I rarely met with an intelligent
man from any of the States, who did not admit, as the result of experience, that the UNITY of the
executive of this State was one of the best of the distinguishing features of our constitution.




                                                                 320
 
                               



Federalist No. 71 - The Duration in Office of the Executive
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Tuesday, March 18, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

DURATION in office has been mentioned as the second requisite to the energy of the Executive
authority. This has relation to two objects: to the personal firmness of the executive magistrate,
in the employment of his constitutional powers; and to the stability of the system of
administration which may have been adopted under his auspices. With regard to the first, it must
be evident, that the longer the duration in office, the greater will be the probability of obtaining
so important an advantage. It is a general principle of human nature, that a man will be interested
in whatever he possesses, in proportion to the firmness or precariousness of the tenure by which
he holds it; will be less attached to what he holds by a momentary or uncertain title, than to what
he enjoys by a durable or certain title; and, of course, will be willing to risk more for the sake of
the one, than for the sake of the other. This remark is not less applicable to a political privilege,
or honor, or trust, than to any article of ordinary property. The inference from it is, that a man
acting in the capacity of chief magistrate, under a consciousness that in a very short time he must
lay down his office, will be apt to feel himself too little interested in it to hazard any material
censure or perplexity, from the independent exertion of his powers, or from encountering the ill-
humors, however transient, which may happen to prevail, either in a considerable part of the
society itself, or even in a predominant faction in the legislative body. If the case should only be,
that he might lay it down, unless continued by a new choice, and if he should be desirous of
being continued, his wishes, conspiring with his fears, would tend still more powerfully to
corrupt his integrity, or debase his fortitude. In either case, feebleness and irresolution must be
the characteristics of the station.

There are some who would be inclined to regard the servile pliancy of the Executive to a
prevailing current, either in the community or in the legislature, as its best recommendation. But
such men entertain very crude notions, as well of the purposes for which government was
instituted, as of the true means by which the public happiness may be promoted. The republican
principle demands that the deliberate sense of the community should govern the conduct of those
to whom they intrust the management of their affairs; but it does not require an unqualified
complaisance to every sudden breeze of passion, or to every transient impulse which the people
may receive from the arts of men, who flatter their prejudices to betray their interests. It is a just
observation, that the people commonly intend the PUBLIC GOOD. This often applies to their
very errors. But their good sense would despise the adulator who should pretend that they always
reason right about the means of promoting it. They know from experience that they sometimes
err; and the wonder is that they so seldom err as they do, beset, as they continually are, by the
wiles of parasites and sycophants, by the snares of the ambitious, the avaricious, the desperate,
by the artifices of men who possess their confidence more than they deserve it, and of those who



                                                                  321
 
                               


seek to possess rather than to deserve it. When occasions present themselves, in which the
interests of the people are at variance with their inclinations, it is the duty of the persons whom
they have appointed to be the guardians of those interests, to withstand the temporary delusion,
in order to give them time and opportunity for more cool and sedate reflection. Instances might
be cited in which a conduct of this kind has saved the people from very fatal consequences of
their own mistakes, and has procured lasting monuments of their gratitude to the men who had
courage and magnanimity enough to serve them at the peril of their displeasure.

But however inclined we might be to insist upon an unbounded complaisance in the Executive to
the inclinations of the people, we can with no propriety contend for a like complaisance to the
humors of the legislature. The latter may sometimes stand in opposition to the former, and at
other times the people may be entirely neutral. In either supposition, it is certainly desirable that
the Executive should be in a situation to dare to act his own opinion with vigor and decision.

The same rule which teaches the propriety of a partition between the various branches of power,
teaches us likewise that this partition ought to be so contrived as to render the one independent of
the other. To what purpose separate the executive or the judiciary from the legislative, if both the
executive and the judiciary are so constituted as to be at the absolute devotion of the legislative?
Such a separation must be merely nominal, and incapable of producing the ends for which it was
established. It is one thing to be subordinate to the laws, and another to be dependent on the
legislative body. The first comports with, the last violates, the fundamental principles of good
government; and, whatever may be the forms of the Constitution, unites all power in the same
hands. The tendency of the legislative authority to absorb every other, has been fully displayed
and illustrated by examples in some preceding numbers. In governments purely republican, this
tendency is almost irresistible. The representatives of the people, in a popular assembly, seem
sometimes to fancy that they are the people themselves, and betray strong symptoms of
impatience and disgust at the least sign of opposition from any other quarter; as if the exercise of
its rights, by either the executive or judiciary, were a breach of their privilege and an outrage to
their dignity. They often appear disposed to exert an imperious control over the other
departments; and as they commonly have the people on their side, they always act with such
momentum as to make it very difficult for the other members of the government to maintain the
balance of the Constitution.

It may perhaps be asked, how the shortness of the duration in office can affect the independence
of the Executive on the legislature, unless the one were possessed of the power of appointing or
displacing the other. One answer to this inquiry may be drawn from the principle already
remarked — that is, from the slender interest a man is apt to take in a short-lived advantage, and
the little inducement it affords him to expose himself, on account of it, to any considerable
inconvenience or hazard. Another answer, perhaps more obvious, though not more conclusive,
will result from the consideration of the influence of the legislative body over the people; which
might be employed to prevent the re-election of a man who, by an upright resistance to any
sinister project of that body, should have made himself obnoxious to its resentment.




                                                                  322
 
                              


It may be asked also, whether a duration of four years would answer the end proposed; and if it
would not, whether a less period, which would at least be recommended by greater security
against ambitious designs, would not, for that reason, be preferable to a longer period, which
was, at the same time, too short for the purpose of inspiring the desired firmness and
independence of the magistrate.

It cannot be affirmed, that a duration of four years, or any other limited duration, would
completely answer the end proposed; but it would contribute towards it in a degree which would
have a material influence upon the spirit and character of the government. Between the
commencement and termination of such a period, there would always be a considerable interval,
in which the prospect of annihilation would be sufficiently remote, not to have an improper
effect upon the conduct of a man inbued with a tolerable portion of fortitude; and in which he
might reasonably promise himself, that there would be time enough before it arrived, to make the
community sensible of the propriety of the measures he might incline to pursue. Though it be
probable that, as he approached the moment when the public were, by a new election, to signify
their sense of his conduct, his confidence, and with it his firmness, would decline; yet both the
one and the other would derive support from the opportunities which his previous continuance in
the station had afforded him, of establishing himself in the esteem and good-will of his
constituents. He might, then, hazard with safety, in proportion to the proofs he had given of his
wisdom and integrity, and to the title he had acquired to the respect and attachment of his fellow-
citizens. As, on the one hand, a duration of four years will contribute to the firmness of the
Executive in a sufficient degree to render it a very valuable ingredient in the composition; so, on
the other, it is not enough to justify any alarm for the public liberty. If a British House of
Commons, from the most feeble beginnings, from the mere power of assenting or disagreeing to
the imposition of a new tax, have, by rapid strides, reduced the prerogatives of the crown and the
privileges of the nobility within the limits they conceived to be compatible with the principles of
a free government, while they raised themselves to the rank and consequence of a coequal branch
of the legislature; if they have been able, in one instance, to abolish both the royalty and the
aristocracy, and to overturn all the ancient establishments, as well in the Church as State; if they
have been able, on a recent occasion, to make the monarch tremble at the prospect of an
innovation1 attempted by them, what would be to be feared from an elective magistrate of four
years' duration, with the confined authorities of a President of the United States? What, but that
he might be unequal to the task which the Constitution assigns him? I shall only add, that if his
duration be such as to leave a doubt of his firmness, that doubt is inconsistent with a jealousy of
his encroachments.




                                                                323
 
                               



Federalist No. 72 - The Same Subject Continued, and Re-Eligibility
of the Executive Considered
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, March 19, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE administration of government, in its largest sense, comprehends all the operations of the
body politic, whether legislative, executive, or judiciary; but in its most usual, and perhaps its
most precise signification. it is limited to executive details, and falls peculiarly within the
province of the executive department. The actual conduct of foreign negotiations, the preparatory
plans of finance, the application and disbursement of the public moneys in conformity to the
general appropriations of the legislature, the arrangement of the army and navy, the directions of
the operations of war — these, and other matters of a like nature, constitute what seems to be
most properly understood by the administration of government. The persons, therefore, to whose
immediate management these different matters are committed, ought to be considered as the
assistants or deputies of the chief magistrate, and on this account, they ought to derive their
offices from his appointment, at least from his nomination, and ought to be subject to his
superintendence. This view of the subject will at once suggest to us the intimate connection
between the duration of the executive magistrate in office and the stability of the system of
administration. To reverse and undo what has been done by a predecessor, is very often
considered by a successor as the best proof he can give of his own capacity and desert; and in
addition to this propensity, where the alteration has been the result of public choice, the person
substituted is warranted in supposing that the dismission of his predecessor has proceeded from a
dislike to his measures; and that the less he resembles him, the more he will recommend himself
to the favor of his constituents. These considerations, and the influence of personal confidences
and attachments, would be likely to induce every new President to promote a change of men to
fill the subordinate stations; and these causes together could not fail to occasion a disgraceful and
ruinous mutability in the administration of the government.

With a positive duration of considerable extent, I connect the circumstance of re-eligibility. The
first is necessary to give to the officer himself the inclination and the resolution to act his part
well, and to the community time and leisure to observe the tendency of his measures, and thence
to form an experimental estimate of their merits. The last is necessary to enable the people, when
they see reason to approve of his conduct, to continue him in his station, in order to prolong the
utility of his talents and virtues, and to secure to the government the advantage of permanency in
a wise system of administration.

Nothing appears more plausible at first sight, nor more ill-founded upon close inspection, than a
scheme which in relation to the present point has had some respectable advocates — I mean that
of continuing the chief magistrate in office for a certain time, and then excluding him from it,


                                                                 324
 
                              


either for a limited period or forever after. This exclusion, whether temporary or perpetual,
would have nearly the same effects, and these effects would be for the most part rather
pernicious than salutary.

One ill effect of the exclusion would be a diminution of the inducements to good behavior. There
are few men who would not feel much less zeal in the discharge of a duty when they were
conscious that the advantages of the station with which it was connected must be relinquished at
a determinate period, than when they were permitted to entertain a hope of obtaining, by
meriting, a continuance of them. This position will not be disputed so long as it is admitted that
the desire of reward is one of the strongest incentives of human conduct; or that the best security
for the fidelity of mankind is to make their interests coincide with their duty. Even the love of
fame, the ruling passion of the noblest minds, which would prompt a man to plan and undertake
extensive and arduous enterprises for the public benefit, requiring considerable time to mature
and perfect them, if he could flatter himself with the prospect of being allowed to finish what he
had begun, would, on the contrary, deter him from the undertaking, when he foresaw that he
must quit the scene before he could accomplish the work, and must commit that, together with
his own reputation, to hands which might be unequal or unfriendly to the task. The most to be
expected from the generality of men, in such a situation, is the negative merit of not doing harm,
instead of the positive merit of doing good.

Another ill effect of the exclusion would be the temptation to sordid views, to peculation, and, in
some instances, to usurpation. An avaricious man, who might happen to fill the office, looking
forward to a time when he must at all events yield up the emoluments he enjoyed, would feel a
propensity, not easy to be resisted by such a man, to make the best use of the opportunity he
enjoyed while it lasted, and might not scruple to have recourse to the most corrupt expedients to
make the harvest as abundant as it was transitory; though the same man, probably, with a
different prospect before him, might content himself with the regular perquisites of his situation,
and might even be unwilling to risk the consequences of an abuse of his opportunities. His
avarice might be a guard upon his avarice. Add to this that the same man might be vain or
ambitious, as well as avaricious. And if he could expect to prolong his honors by his good
conduct, he might hesitate to sacrifice his appetite for them to his appetite for gain. But with the
prospect before him of approaching an inevitable annihilation, his avarice would be likely to get
the victory over his caution, his vanity, or his ambition.

An ambitious man, too, when he found himself seated on the summit of his country’s honors,
when he looked forward to the time at which he must descend from the exalted eminence for
ever, and reflected that no exertion of merit on his part could save him from the unwelcome
reverse; such a man, in such a situation, would be much more violently tempted to embrace a
favorable conjuncture for attempting the prolongation of his power, at every personal hazard,
than if he had the probability of answering the same end by doing his duty.

Would it promote the peace of the community, or the stability of the government to have half a
dozen men who had had credit enough to be raised to the seat of the supreme magistracy,



                                                                 325
 
                               


wandering among the people like discontented ghosts, and sighing for a place which they were
destined never more to possess?

A third ill effect of the exclusion would be, the depriving the community of the advantage of the
experience gained by the chief magistrate in the exercise of his office. That experience is the
parent of wisdom, is an adage the truth of which is recognized by the wisest as well as the
simplest of mankind. What more desirable or more essential than this quality in the governors of
nations? Where more desirable or more essential than in the first magistrate of a nation? Can it
be wise to put this desirable and essential quality under the ban of the Constitution, and to
declare that the moment it is acquired, its possessor shall be compelled to abandon the station in
which it was acquired, and to which it is adapted? This, nevertheless, is the precise import of all
those regulations which exclude men from serving their country, by the choice of their fellow
citizens, after they have by a course of service fitted themselves for doing it with a greater degree
of utility.

A fourth ill effect of the exclusion would be the banishing men from stations in which, in certain
emergencies of the state, their presence might be of the greatest moment to the public interest or
safety. There is no nation which has not, at one period or another, experienced an absolute
necessity of the services of particular men in particular situations; perhaps it would not be too
strong to say, to the preservation of its political existence. How unwise, therefore, must be every
such self-denying ordinance as serves to prohibit a nation from making use of its own citizens in
the manner best suited to its exigencies and circumstances! Without supposing the personal
essentiality of the man, it is evident that a change of the chief magistrate, at the breaking out of a
war, or at any similar crisis, for another, even of equal merit, would at all times be detrimental to
the community, inasmuch as it would substitute inexperience to experience, and would tend to
unhinge and set afloat the already settled train of the administration.

A fifth ill effect of the exclusion would be, that it would operate as a constitutional interdiction
of stability in the administration. By necessitating a change of men, in the first office of the
nation, it would necessitate a mutability of measures. It is not generally to be expected, that men
will vary and measures remain uniform. The contrary is the usual course of things. And we need
not be apprehensive that there will be too much stability, while there is even the option of
changing; nor need we desire to prohibit the people from continuing their confidence where they
think it may be safely placed, and where, by constancy on their part, they may obviate the fatal
inconveniences of fluctuating councils and a variable policy.

These are some of the disadvantages which would flow from the principle of exclusion. They
apply most forcibly to the scheme of a perpetual exclusion; but when we consider that even a
partial exclusion would always render the readmission of the person a remote and precarious
object, the observations which have been made will apply nearly as fully to one case as to the
other.




                                                                   326
 
                              


What are the advantages promised to counterbalance these disadvantages? They are represented
to be: 1st, greater independence in the magistrate; 2d, greater security to the people. Unless the
exclusion be perpetual, there will be no pretense to infer the first advantage. But even in that
case, may he have no object beyond his present station, to which he may sacrifice his
independence? May he have no connections, no friends, for whom he may sacrifice it? May he
not be less willing by a firm conduct, to make personal enemies, when he acts under the
impression that a time is fast approaching, on the arrival of which he not only MAY, but MUST,
be exposed to their resentments, upon an equal, perhaps upon an inferior, footing? It is not an
easy point to determine whether his independence would be most promoted or impaired by such
an arrangement.

As to the second supposed advantage, there is still greater reason to entertain doubts concerning
it. If the exclusion were to be perpetual, a man of irregular ambition, of whom alone there could
be reason in any case to entertain apprehension, would, with infinite reluctance, yield to the
necessity of taking his leave forever of a post in which his passion for power and pre-eminence
had acquired the force of habit. And if he had been fortunate or adroit enough to conciliate the
good-will of the people, he might induce them to consider as a very odious and unjustifiable
restraint upon themselves, a provision which was calculated to debar them of the right of giving
a fresh proof of their attachment to a favorite. There may be conceived circumstances in which
this disgust of the people, seconding the thwarted ambition of such a favorite, might occasion
greater danger to liberty, than could ever reasonably be dreaded from the possibility of a
perpetuation in office, by the voluntary suffrages of the community, exercising a constitutional
privilege.

There is an excess of refinement in the idea of disabling the people to continue in office men
who had entitled themselves, in their opinion, to approbation and confidence; the advantages of
which are at best speculative and equivocal, and are overbalanced by disadvantages far more
certain and decisive.




                                                               327
 
                                



Federalist No. 73 - The Provision For The Support of the Executive,
and the Veto Power
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Friday, March 21, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE third ingredient towards constituting the vigor of the executive authority, is an adequate
provision for its support. It is evident that, without proper attention to this article, the separation
of the executive from the legislative department would be merely nominal and nugatory. The
legislature, with a discretionary power over the salary and emoluments of the Chief Magistrate,
could render him as obsequious to their will as they might think proper to make him. They
might, in most cases, either reduce him by famine, or tempt him by largesses, to surrender at
discretion his judgment to their inclinations. These expressions, taken in all the latitude of the
terms, would no doubt convey more than is intended. There are men who could neither be
distressed nor won into a sacrifice of their duty; but this stern virtue is the growth of few soils;
and in the main it will be found that a power over a man’s support is a power over his will. If it
were necessary to confirm so plain a truth by facts, examples would not be wanting, even in this
country, of the intimidation or seduction of the Executive by the terrors or allurements of the
pecuniary arrangements of the legislative body.

It is not easy, therefore, to commend too highly the judicious attention which has been paid to
this subject in the proposed Constitution. It is there provided that “The President of the United
States shall, at stated times, receive for his services a compensation which shall neither be
increased nor diminished during the period for which he shall have been elected; and he shall not
receive within that period any other emolument from the United States, or any of them.” It is
impossible to imagine any provision which would have been more eligible than this. The
legislature, on the appointment of a President, is once for all to declare what shall be the
compensation for his services during the time for which he shall have been elected. This done,
they will have no power to alter it, either by increase or diminution, till a new period of service
by a new election commences. They can neither weaken his fortitude by operating on his
necessities, nor corrupt his integrity by appealing to his avarice. Neither the Union, nor any of its
members, will be at liberty to give, nor will he be at liberty to receive, any other emolument than
that which may have been determined by the first act. He can, of course, have no pecuniary
inducement to renounce or desert the independence intended for him by the Constitution.

The last of the requisites to energy, which have been enumerated, are competent powers. Let us
proceed to consider those which are proposed to be vested in the President of the United States.

The first thing that offers itself to our observation, is the qualified negative of the President upon
the acts or resolutions of the two houses of the legislature; or, in other words, his power of


                                                                    328
 
                              


returning all bills with objections, to have the effect of preventing their becoming laws, unless
they should afterwards be ratified by two thirds of each of the component members of the
legislative body.

The propensity of the legislative department to intrude upon the rights, and to absorb the powers,
of the other departments, has been already suggested and repeated; the insufficiency of a mere
parchment delineation of the boundaries of each, has also been remarked upon; and the necessity
of furnishing each with constitutional arms for its own defense, has been inferred and proved.
From these clear and indubitable principles results the propriety of a negative, either absolute or
qualified, in the Executive, upon the acts of the legislative branches. Without the one or the
other, the former would be absolutely unable to defend himself against the depredations of the
latter. He might gradually be stripped of his authorities by successive resolutions, or annihilated
by a single vote. And in the one mode or the other, the legislative and executive powers might
speedily come to be blended in the same hands. If even no propensity had ever discovered itself
in the legislative body to invade the rights of the Executive, the rules of just reasoning and
theoretic propriety would of themselves teach us, that the one ought not to be left to the mercy of
the other, but ought to possess a constitutional and effectual power of selfdefense.

But the power in question has a further use. It not only serves as a shield to the Executive, but it
furnishes an additional security against the enaction of improper laws. It establishes a salutary
check upon the legislative body, calculated to guard the community against the effects of faction,
precipitancy, or of any impulse unfriendly to the public good, which may happen to influence a
majority of that body.

The propriety of a negative has, upon some occasions, been combated by an observation, that it
was not to be presumed a single man would possess more virtue and wisdom than a number of
men; and that unless this presumption should be entertained, it would be improper to give the
executive magistrate any species of control over the legislative body.

But this observation, when examined, will appear rather specious than solid. The propriety of the
thing does not turn upon the supposition of superior wisdom or virtue in the Executive, but upon
the supposition that the legislature will not be infallible; that the love of power may sometimes
betray it into a disposition to encroach upon the rights of other members of the government; that
a spirit of faction may sometimes pervert its deliberations; that impressions of the moment may
sometimes hurry it into measures which itself, on maturer reflexion, would condemn. The
primary inducement to conferring the power in question upon the Executive is, to enable him to
defend himself; the secondary one is to increase the chances in favor of the community against
the passing of bad laws, through haste, inadvertence, or design. The oftener the measure is
brought under examination, the greater the diversity in the situations of those who are to examine
it, the less must be the danger of those errors which flow from want of due deliberation, or of
those missteps which proceed from the contagion of some common passion or interest. It is far
less probable, that culpable views of any kind should infect all the parts of the government at the




                                                                 329
 
                               


same moment and in relation to the same object, than that they should by turns govern and
mislead every one of them.

It may perhaps be said that the power of preventing bad laws includes that of preventing good
ones; and may be used to the one purpose as well as to the other. But this objection will have
little weight with those who can properly estimate the mischiefs of that inconstancy and
mutability in the laws, which form the greatest blemish in the character and genius of our
governments. They will consider every institution calculated to restrain the excess of law-
making, and to keep things in the same state in which they happen to be at any given period, as
much more likely to do good than harm; because it is favorable to greater stability in the system
of legislation. The injury which may possibly be done by defeating a few good laws, will be
amply compensated by the advantage of preventing a number of bad ones.

Nor is this all. The superior weight and influence of the legislative body in a free government,
and the hazard to the Executive in a trial of strength with that body, afford a satisfactory security
that the negative would generally be employed with great caution; and there would oftener be
room for a charge of timidity than of rashness in the exercise of it. A king of Great Britain, with
all his train of sovereign attributes, and with all the influence he draws from a thousand sources,
would, at this day, hesitate to put a negative upon the joint resolutions of the two houses of
Parliament. He would not fail to exert the utmost resources of that influence to strangle a
measure disagreeable to him, in its progress to the throne, to avoid being reduced to the dilemma
of permitting it to take effect, or of risking the displeasure of the nation by an opposition to the
sense of the legislative body. Nor is it probable, that he would ultimately venture to exert his
prerogatives, but in a case of manifest propriety, or extreme necessity. All well-informed men in
that kingdom will accede to the justness of this remark. A very considerable period has elapsed
since the negative of the crown has been exercised.

If a magistrate so powerful and so well fortified as a British monarch, would have scruples about
the exercise of the power under consideration, how much greater caution may be reasonably
expected in a President of the United States, clothed for the short period of four years with the
executive authority of a government wholly and purely republican?

It is evident that there would be greater danger of his not using his power when necessary, than
of his using it too often, or too much. An argument, indeed, against its expediency, has been
drawn from this very source. It has been represented, on this account, as a power odious in
appearance, useless in practice. But it will not follow, that because it might be rarely exercised, it
would never be exercised. In the case for which it is chiefly designed, that of an immediate
attack upon the constitutional rights of the Executive, or in a case in which the public good was
evidently and palpably sacrificed, a man of tolerable firmness would avail himself of his
constitutional means of defense, and would listen to the admonitions of duty and responsibility.
In the former supposition, his fortitude would be stimulated by his immediate interest in the
power of his office; in the latter, by the probability of the sanction of his constituents, who,
though they would naturally incline to the legislative body in a doubtful case, would hardly



                                                                  330
 
                               


suffer their partiality to delude them in a very plain case. I speak now with an eye to a magistrate
possessing only a common share of firmness. There are men who, under any circumstances, will
have the courage to do their duty at every hazard.

But the convention have pursued a mean in this business, which will both facilitate the exercise
of the power vested in this respect in the executive magistrate, and make its efficacy to depend
on the sense of a considerable part of the legislative body. Instead of an absolute negative, it is
proposed to give the Executive the qualified negative already described. This is a power which
would be much more readily exercised than the other. A man who might be afraid to defeat a law
by his single VETO, might not scruple to return it for reconsideration; subject to being finally
rejected only in the event of more than one third of each house concurring in the sufficiency of
his objections. He would be encouraged by the reflection, that if his opposition should prevail, it
would embark in it a very respectable proportion of the legislative body, whose influence would
be united with his in supporting the propriety of his conduct in the public opinion. A direct and
categorical negative has something in the appearance of it more harsh, and more apt to irritate,
than the mere suggestion of argumentative objections to be approved or disapproved by those to
whom they are addressed. In proportion as it would be less apt to offend, it would be more apt to
be exercised; and for this very reason, it may in practice be found more effectual. It is to be
hoped that it will not often happen that improper views will govern so large a proportion as two
thirds of both branches of the legislature at the same time; and this, too, in spite of the
counterposing weight of the Executive. It is at any rate far less probable that this should be the
case, than that such views should taint the resolutions and conduct of a bare majority. A power of
this nature in the Executive, will often have a silent and unperceived, though forcible, operation.
When men, engaged in unjustifiable pursuits, are aware that obstructions may come from a
quarter which they cannot control, they will often be restrained by the bare apprehension of
opposition, from doing what they would with eagerness rush into, if no such external
impediments were to be feared.

This qualified negative, as has been elsewhere remarked, is in this State vested in a council,
consisting of the governor, with the chancellor and judges of the Supreme Court, or any two of
them. It has been freely employed upon a variety of occasions, and frequently with success. And
its utility has become so apparent, that persons who, in compiling the Constitution, were violent
opposers of it, have from experience become its declared admirers.1

I have in another place remarked, that the convention, in the formation of this part of their plan,
had departed from the model of the constitution of this State, in favor of that of Massachusetts.
Two strong reasons may be imagined for this preference. One is that the judges, who are to be
the interpreters of the law, might receive an improper bias, from having given a previous opinion
in their revisionary capacities; the other is that by being often associated with the Executive, they
might be induced to embark too far in the political views of that magistrate, and thus a dangerous
combination might by degrees be cemented between the executive and judiciary departments. It
is impossible to keep the judges too distinct from every other avocation than that of expounding




                                                                 331
 
                               


the laws. It is peculiarly dangerous to place them in a situation to be either corrupted or
influenced by the Executive.




                                                                    332
 
                               



Federalist No. 74 - The Command of the Military and Naval Forces,
and the Pardoning Power of the Executive
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Tuesday, March 25, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE President of the United States is to be “commander-in-chief of the army and navy of the
United States, and of the militia of the several States when called into the actual service of the
United States.” The propriety of this provision is so evident in itself, and it is, at the same time,
so consonant to the precedents of the State constitutions in general, that little need be said to
explain or enforce it. Even those of them which have, in other respects, coupled the chief
magistrate with a council, have for the most part concentrated the military authority in him alone.
Of all the cares or concerns of government, the direction of war most peculiarly demands those
qualities which distinguish the exercise of power by a single hand. The direction of war implies
the direction of the common strength; and the power of directing and employing the common
strength, forms a usual and essential part in the definition of the executive authority.

“The President may require the opinion, in writing, of the principal officer in each of the
executive departments, upon any subject relating to the duties of their respective officers.” This I
consider as a mere redundancy in the plan, as the right for which it provides would result of itself
from the office.

He is also to be authorized to grant “reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States,
except in cases of impeachment.” Humanity and good policy conspire to dictate, that the benign
prerogative of pardoning should be as little as possible fettered or embarrassed. The criminal
code of every country partakes so much of necessary severity, that without an easy access to
exceptions in favor of unfortunate guilt, justice would wear a countenance too sanguinary and
cruel. As the sense of responsibility is always strongest, in proportion as it is undivided, it may
be inferred that a single man would be most ready to attend to the force of those motives which
might plead for a mitigation of the rigor of the law, and least apt to yield to considerations which
were calculated to shelter a fit object of its vengeance. The reflection that the fate of a fellow-
creature depended on his sole fiat, would naturally inspire scrupulousness and caution; the dread
of being accused of weakness or connivance, would beget equal circumspection, though of a
different kind. On the other hand, as men generally derive confidence from their numbers, they
might often encourage each other in an act of obduracy, and might be less sensible to the
apprehension of suspicion or censure for an injudicious or affected clemency. On these accounts,
one man appears to be a more eligible dispenser of the mercy of government, than a body of
men.




                                                                 333
 
                               


The expediency of vesting the power of pardoning in the President has, if I mistake not, been
only contested in relation to the crime of treason. This, it has been urged, ought to have depended
upon the assent of one, or both, of the branches of the legislative body. I shall not deny that there
are strong reasons to be assigned for requiring in this particular the concurrence of that body, or
of a part of it. As treason is a crime levelled at the immediate being of the society, when the laws
have once ascertained the guilt of the offender, there seems a fitness in referring the expediency
of an act of mercy towards him to the judgment of the legislature. And this ought the rather to be
the case, as the supposition of the connivance of the Chief Magistrate ought not to be entirely
excluded. But there are also strong objections to such a plan. It is not to be doubted, that a single
man of prudence and good sense is better fitted, in delicate conjunctures, to balance the motives
which may plead for and against the remission of the punishment, than any numerous body
whatever. It deserves particular attention, that treason will often be connected with seditions
which embrace a large proportion of the community; as lately happened in Massachusetts. In
every such case, we might expect to see the representation of the people tainted with the same
spirit which had given birth to the offense. And when parties were pretty equally matched, the
secret sympathy of the friends and favorers of the condemned person, availing itself of the good-
nature and weakness of others, might frequently bestow impunity where the terror of an example
was necessary. On the other hand, when the sedition had proceeded from causes which had
inflamed the resentments of the major party, they might often be found obstinate and inexorable,
when policy demanded a conduct of forbearance and clemency. But the principal argument for
reposing the power of pardoning in this case to the Chief Magistrate is this: in seasons of
insurrection or rebellion, there are often critical moments, when a welltimed offer of pardon to
the insurgents or rebels may restore the tranquillity of the commonwealth; and which, if suffered
to pass unimproved, it may never be possible afterwards to recall. The dilatory process of
convening the legislature, or one of its branches, for the purpose of obtaining its sanction to the
measure, would frequently be the occasion of letting slip the golden opportunity. The loss of a
week, a day, an hour, may sometimes be fatal. If it should be observed, that a discretionary
power, with a view to such contingencies, might be occasionally conferred upon the President, it
may be answered in the first place, that it is questionable, whether, in a limited Constitution, that
power could be delegated by law; and in the second place, that it would generally be impolitic
beforehand to take any step which might hold out the prospect of impunity. A proceeding of this
kind, out of the usual course, would be likely to be construed into an argument of timidity or of
weakness, and would have a tendency to embolden guilt.




                                                                 334
 
                                



Federalist No. 75 - The Treaty-Making Power of the Executive
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, March 26, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE President is to have power, “by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to make
treaties, provided two thirds of the senators present concur.” Though this provision has been
assailed, on different grounds, with no small degree of vehemence, I scruple not to declare my
firm persuasion, that it is one of the best digested and most unexceptionable parts of the plan.
One ground of objection is the trite topic of the intermixture of powers; some contending that the
President ought alone to possess the power of making treaties; others, that it ought to have been
exclusively deposited in the Senate. Another source of objection is derived from the small
number of persons by whom a treaty may be made. Of those who espouse this objection, a part
are of opinion that the House of Representatives ought to have been associated in the business,
while another part seem to think that nothing more was necessary than to have substituted two
thirds of all the members of the Senate, to two thirds of the members present. As I flatter myself
the observations made in a preceding number upon this part of the plan must have sufficed to
place it, to a discerning eye, in a very favorable light, I shall here content myself with offering
only some supplementary remarks, principally with a view to the objections which have been
just stated.

With regard to the intermixture of powers, I shall rely upon the explanations already given in
other places, of the true sense of the rule upon which that objection is founded; and shall take it
for granted, as an inference from them, that the union of the Executive with the Senate, in the
article of treaties, is no infringement of that rule. I venture to add, that the particular nature of the
power of making treaties indicates a peculiar propriety in that union. Though several writers on
the subject of government place that power in the class of executive authorities, yet this is
evidently an arbitrary disposition; for if we attend carefully to its operation, it will be found to
partake more of the legislative than of the executive character, though it does not seem strictly to
fall within the definition of either of them. The essence of the legislative authority is to enact
laws, or, in other words, to prescribe rules for the regulation of the society; while the execution
of the laws, and the employment of the common strength, either for this purpose or for the
common defense, seem to comprise all the functions of the executive magistrate. The power of
making treaties is, plainly, neither the one nor the other. It relates neither to the execution of the
subsisting laws, nor to the enaction of new ones; and still less to an exertion of the common
strength. Its objects are CONTRACTS with foreign nations, which have the force of law, but
derive it from the obligations of good faith. They are not rules prescribed by the sovereign to the
subject, but agreements between sovereign and sovereign. The power in question seems therefore
to form a distinct department, and to belong, properly, neither to the legislative nor to the
executive. The qualities elsewhere detailed as indispensable in the management of foreign



                                                                     335
 
                               


negotiations, point out the Executive as the most fit agent in those transactions; while the vast
importance of the trust, and the operation of treaties as laws, plead strongly for the participation
of the whole or a portion of the legislative body in the office of making them.

However proper or safe it may be in governments where the executive magistrate is an hereditary
monarch, to commit to him the entire power of making treaties, it would be utterly unsafe and
improper to intrust that power to an elective magistrate of four years’ duration. It has been
remarked, upon another occasion, and the remark is unquestionably just, that an hereditary
monarch, though often the oppressor of his people, has personally too much stake in the
government to be in any material danger of being corrupted by foreign powers. But a man raised
from the station of a private citizen to the rank of chief magistrate, possessed of a moderate or
slender fortune, and looking forward to a period not very remote when he may probably be
obliged to return to the station from which he was taken, might sometimes be under temptations
to sacrifice his duty to his interest, which it would require superlative virtue to withstand. An
avaricious man might be tempted to betray the interests of the state to the acquisition of wealth.
An ambitious man might make his own aggrandizement, by the aid of a foreign power, the price
of his treachery to his constituents. The history of human conduct does not warrant that exalted
opinion of human virtue which would make it wise in a nation to commit interests of so delicate
and momentous a kind, as those which concern its intercourse with the rest of the world, to the
sole disposal of a magistrate created and circumstanced as would be a President of the United
States.

To have intrusted the power of making treaties to the Senate alone, would have been to
relinquish the benefits of the constitutional agency of the President in the conduct of foreign
negotiations. It is true that the Senate would, in that case, have the option of employing him in
this capacity, but they would also have the option of letting it alone, and pique or cabal might
induce the latter rather than the former. Besides this, the ministerial servant of the Senate could
not be expected to enjoy the confidence and respect of foreign powers in the same degree with
the constitutional representatives of the nation, and, of course, would not be able to act with an
equal degree of weight or efficacy. While the Union would, from this cause, lose a considerable
advantage in the management of its external concerns, the people would lose the additional
security which would result from the co-operation of the Executive. Though it would be
imprudent to confide in him solely so important a trust, yet it cannot be doubted that his
participation would materially add to the safety of the society. It must indeed be clear to a
demonstration that the joint possession of the power in question, by the President and Senate,
would afford a greater prospect of security, than the separate possession of it by either of them.
And whoever has maturely weighed the circumstances which must concur in the appointment of
a President, will be satisfied that the office will always bid fair to be filled by men of such
characters as to render their concurrence in the formation of treaties peculiarly desirable, as well
on the score of wisdom, as on that of integrity.

The remarks made in a former number, which have been alluded to in another part of this paper,
will apply with conclusive force against the admission of the House of Representatives to a share



                                                                  336
 
                               


in the formation of treaties. The fluctuating and, taking its future increase into the account, the
multitudinous composition of that body, forbid us to expect in it those qualities which are
essential to the proper execution of such a trust. Accurate and comprehensive knowledge of
foreign politics; a steady and systematic adherence to the same views; a nice and uniform
sensibility to national character; decision, secrecy, and despatch, are incompatible with the
genius of a body so variable and so numerous. The very complication of the business, by
introducing a necessity of the concurrence of so many different bodies, would of itself afford a
solid objection. The greater frequency of the calls upon the House of Representatives, and the
greater length of time which it would often be necessary to keep them together when convened,
to obtain their sanction in the progressive stages of a treaty, would be a source of so great
inconvenience and expense as alone ought to condemn the project.

The only objection which remains to be canvassed, is that which would substitute the proportion
of two thirds of all the members composing the senatorial body, to that of two thirds of the
members present. It has been shown, under the second head of our inquiries, that all provisions
which require more than the majority of any body to its resolutions, have a direct tendency to
embarrass the operations of the government, and an indirect one to subject the sense of the
majority to that of the minority. This consideration seems sufficient to determine our opinion,
that the convention have gone as far in the endeavor to secure the advantage of numbers in the
formation of treaties as could have been reconciled either with the activity of the public councils
or with a reasonable regard to the major sense of the community. If two thirds of the whole
number of members had been required, it would, in many cases, from the non-attendance of a
part, amount in practice to a necessity of unanimity. And the history of every political
establishment in which this principle has prevailed, is a history of impotence, perplexity, and
disorder. Proofs of this position might be adduced from the examples of the Roman Tribuneship,
the Polish Diet, and the States-General of the Netherlands, did not an example at home render
foreign precedents unnecessary.

To require a fixed proportion of the whole body would not, in all probability, contribute to the
advantages of a numerous agency, better then merely to require a proportion of the attending
members. The former, by making a determinate number at all times requisite to a resolution,
diminishes the motives to punctual attendance. The latter, by making the capacity of the body to
depend on a proportion which may be varied by the absence or presence of a single member, has
the contrary effect. And as, by promoting punctuality, it tends to keep the body complete, there is
great likelihood that its resolutions would generally be dictated by as great a number in this case
as in the other; while there would be much fewer occasions of delay. It ought not to be forgotten
that, under the existing Confederation, two members may, and usually do, represent a State;
whence it happens that Congress, who now are solely invested with all the powers of the Union,
rarely consist of a greater number of persons than would compose the intended Senate. If we add
to this, that as the members vote by States, and that where there is only a single member present
from a State, his vote is lost, it will justify a supposition that the active voices in the Senate,
where the members are to vote individually, would rarely fall short in number of the active
voices in the existing Congress. When, in addition to these considerations, we take into view the



                                                                 337
 
                              


co-operation of the President, we shall not hesitate to infer that the people of America would
have greater security against an improper use of the power of making treaties, under the new
Constitution, than they now enjoy under the Confederation. And when we proceed still one step
further, and look forward to the probable augmentation of the Senate, by the erection of new
States, we shall not only perceive ample ground of confidence in the sufficiency of the members
to whose agency that power will be intrusted, but we shall probably be led to conclude that a
body more numerous than the Senate would be likely to become, would be very little fit for the
proper discharge of the trust.




                                                             338
 
                              



Federalist No. 76 - The Appointing Power of the Executive
Written by Alexander Hamilton
New York Packet, Tuesday, April 1, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE President is "to nominate, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint
ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, judges of the Supreme Court, and all other
officers of the United States whose appointments are not otherwise provided for in the
Constitution. But the Congress may by law vest the appointment of such inferior officers as they
think proper, in the President alone, or in the courts of law, or in the heads of departments. The
President shall have power to fill up all vacancies which may happen during the recess of the
Senate, by granting commissions which shall expire at the end of their next session."

It has been observed in a former paper, that "the true test of a good government is its aptitude
and tendency to produce a good administration." If the justness of this observation be admitted,
the mode of appointing the officers of the United States contained in the foregoing clauses, must,
when examined, be allowed to be entitled to particular commendation. It is not easy to conceive
a plan better calculated than this to promote a judicious choice of men for filling the offices of
the Union; and it will not need proof, that on this point must essentially depend the character of
its administration.

It will be agreed on all hands, that the power of appointment, in ordinary cases, ought to be
modified in one of three ways. It ought either to be vested in a single man, or in a select
assembly of a moderate number; or in a single man, with the concurrence of such an assembly.
The exercise of it by the people at large will be readily admitted to be impracticable; as waiving
every other consideration, it would leave them little time to do anything else. When, therefore,
mention is made in the subsequent reasonings of an assembly or body of men, what is said must
be understood to relate to a select body or assembly, of the description already given. The people
collectively, from their number and from their dispersed situation, cannot be regulated in their
movements by that systematic spirit of cabal and intrigue, which will be urged as the chief
objections to reposing the power in question in a body of men.

Those who have themselves reflected upon the subject, or who have attended to the observations
made in other parts of these papers, in relation to the appointment of the President, will, I
presume, agree to the position, that there would always be great probability of having the place
supplied by a man of abilities, at least respectable. Premising this, I proceed to lay it down as a
rule, that one man of discernment is better fitted to analyze and estimate the peculiar qualities
adapted to particular offices, than a body of men of equal or perhaps even of superior
discernment.




                                                                339
 
                               


The sole and undivided responsibility of one man will naturally beget a livelier sense of duty and
a more exact regard to reputation. He will, on this account, feel himself under stronger
obligations, and more interested to investigate with care the qualities requisite to the stations to
be filled, and to prefer with impartiality the persons who may have the fairest pretensions to
them. He will have fewer personal attachments to gratify, than a body of men who may each be
supposed to have an equal number; and will be so much the less liable to be misled by the
sentiments of friendship and of affection. A single well-directed man, by a single understanding,
cannot be distracted and warped by that diversity of views, feelings, and interests, which
frequently distract and warp the resolutions of a collective body. There is nothing so apt to
agitate the passions of mankind as personal considerations whether they relate to ourselves or to
others, who are to be the objects of our choice or preference. Hence, in every exercise of the
power of appointing to offices, by an assembly of men, we must expect to see a full display of all
the private and party likings and dislikes, partialities and antipathies, attachments and
animosities, which are felt by those who compose the assembly. The choice which may at any
time happen to be made under such circumstances, will of course be the result either of a victory
gained by one party over the other, or of a compromise between the parties. In either case, the
intrinsic merit of the candidate will be too often out of sight. In the first, the qualifications best
adapted to uniting the suffrages of the party, will be more considered than those which fit the
person for the station. In the last, the coalition will commonly turn upon some interested
equivalent: “Give us the man we wish for this office, and you shall have the one you wish for
that.” This will be the usual condition of the bargain. And it will rarely happen that the
advancement of the public service will be the primary object either of party victories or of party
negotiations.

The truth of the principles here advanced seems to have been felt by the most intelligent of those
who have found fault with the provision made, in this respect, by the convention. They contend
that the President ought solely to have been authorized to make the appointments under the
federal government. But it is easy to show, that every advantage to be expected from such an
arrangement would, in substance, be derived from the power of nomination, which is proposed to
be conferred upon him; while several disadvantages which might attend the absolute power of
appointment in the hands of that officer would be avoided. In the act of nomination, his judgment
alone would be exercised; and as it would be his sole duty to point out the man who, with the
approbation of the Senate, should fill an office, his responsibility would be as complete as if he
were to make the final appointment. There can, in this view, be no difference between
nominating and appointing. The same motives which would influence a proper discharge of his
duty in one case, would exist in the other. And as no man could be appointed but on his previous
nomination, every man who might be appointed would be, in fact, his choice.

But might not his nomination be overruled? I grant it might, yet this could only be to make place
for another nomination by himself. The person ultimately appointed must be the object of his
preference, though perhaps not in the first degree. It is also not very probable that his nomination
would often be overruled. The Senate could not be tempted, by the preference they might feel to
another, to reject the one proposed; because they could not assure themselves, that the person



                                                                  340
 
                               


they might wish would be brought forward by a second or by any subsequent nomination. They
could not even be certain, that a future nomination would present a candidate in any degree more
acceptable to them; and as their dissent might cast a kind of stigma upon the individual rejected,
and might have the appearance of a reflection upon the judgment of the chief magistrate, it is not
likely that their sanction would often be refused, where there were not special and strong reasons
for the refusal.

To what purpose then require the co-operation of the Senate? I answer, that the necessity of their
concurrence would have a powerful, though, in general, a silent operation. It would be an
excellent check upon a spirit of favoritism in the President, and would tend greatly to prevent the
appointment of unfit characters from State prejudice, from family connection, from personal
attachment, or from a view to popularity. In addition to this, it would be an efficacious source of
stability in the administration.

It will readily be comprehended, that a man who had himself the sole disposition of offices,
would be governed much more by his private inclinations and interests, than when he was bound
to submit the propriety of his choice to the discussion and determination of a different and
independent body, and that body an entier branch of the legislature. The possibility of rejection
would be a strong motive to care in proposing. The danger to his own reputation, and, in the case
of an elective magistrate, to his political existence, from betraying a spirit of favoritism, or an
unbecoming pursuit of popularity, to the observation of a body whose opinion would have great
weight in forming that of the public, could not fail to operate as a barrier to the one and to the
other. He would be both ashamed and afraid to bring forward, for the most distinguished or
lucrative stations, candidates who had no other merit than that of coming from the same State to
which he particularly belonged, or of being in some way or other personally allied to him, or of
possessing the necessary insignificance and pliancy to render them the obsequious instruments of
his pleasure.

To this reasoning it has been objected that the President, by the influence of the power of
nomination, may secure the complaisance of the Senate to his views. This supposition of
universal venalty in human nature is little less an error in political reasoning, than the supposition
of universal rectitude. The institution of delegated power implies, that there is a portion of virtue
and honor among mankind, which may be a reasonable foundation of confidence; and experience
justifies the theory. It has been found to exist in the most corrupt periods of the most corrupt
governments. The venalty of the British House of Commons has been long a topic of accusation
against that body, in the country to which they belong as well as in this; and it cannot be doubted
that the charge is, to a considerable extent, well founded. But it is as little to be doubted, that
there is always a large proportion of the body, which consists of independent and public-spirited
men, who have an influential weight in the councils of the nation. Hence it is (the present reign
not excepted) that the sense of that body is often seen to control the inclinations of the monarch,
both with regard to men and to measures. Though it might therefore be allowable to suppose that
the Executive might occasionally influence some individuals in the Senate, yet the supposition,
that he could in general purchase the integrity of the whole body, would be forced and



                                                                  341
 
                              


improbable. A man disposed to view human nature as it is, without either flattering its virtues or
exaggerating its vices, will see sufficient ground of confidence in the probity of the Senate, to
rest satisfied, not only that it will be impracticable to the Executive to corrupt or seduce a
majority of its members, but that the necessity of its co-operation, in the business of
appointments, will be a considerable and salutary restraint upon the conduct of that magistrate.
Nor is the integrity of the Senate the only reliance. The Constitution has provided some
important guards against the danger of executive influence upon the legislative body: it declares
that "No senator or representative shall during the time for which he was elected, be appointed to
any civil office under the United States, which shall have been created, or the emoluments
whereof shall have been increased, during such time; and no person, holding any office under the
United States, shall be a member of either house during his continuance in office."




                                                               342
 
                               



Federalist No. 77 - The Appointing Power Continued and Other
Powers of the Executive Considered
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, April 2, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

IT HAS been mentioned as one of the advantages to be expected from the co-operation of the
Senate, in the business of appointments, that it would contribute to the stability of the
administration. The consent of that body would be necessary to displace as well as to appoint. A
change of the Chief Magistrate, therefore, would not occasion so violent or so general a
revolution in the officers of the government as might be expected, if he were the sole disposer of
offices. Where a man in any station had given satisfactory evidence of his fitness for it, a new
President would be restrained from attempting a change in favor of a person more agreeable to
him, by the apprehension that a discountenance of the Senate might frustrate the attempt, and
bring some degree of discredit upon himself. Those who can best estimate the value of a steady
administration, will be most disposed to prize a provision which connects the official existence
of public men with the approbation or disapprobation of that body which, from the greater
permanency of its own composition, will in all probability be less subject to inconstancy than
any other member of the government.

To this union of the Senate with the President, in the article of appointments, it has in some cases
been suggested that it would serve to give the President an undue influence over the Senate, and
in others that it would have an opposite tendency — a strong proof that neither suggestion is true.

To state the first in its proper form, is to refute it. It amounts to this: the President would have an
improper influence over the Senate, because the Senate would have the power of restraining him.
This is an absurdity in terms. It cannot admit of a doubt that the entire power of appointment
would enable him much more effectually to establish a dangerous empire over that body, than a
mere power of nomination subject to their control.

Let us take a view of the converse of the proposition: “the Senate would influence the
Executive.” As I have had occasion to remark in several other instances, the indistinctness of the
objection forbids a precise answer. In what manner is this influence to be exerted? In relation to
what objects? The power of influencing a person, in the sense in which it is here used, must
imply a power of conferring a benefit upon him. How could the Senate confer a benefit upon the
President by the manner of employing their right of negative upon his nominations? If it be said
they might sometimes gratify him by an acquiescence in a favorite choice, when public motives
might dictate a different conduct, I answer, that the instances in which the President could be
personally interested in the result, would be too few to admit of his being materially affected by
the compliances of the Senate. The POWER which can originate the disposition of honors and


                                                                   343
 
                              


emoluments, is more likely to attract than to be attracted by the POWER which can merely
obstruct their course. If by influencing the President be meant restraining him, this is precisely
what must have been intended. And it has been shown that the restraint would be salutary, at the
same time that it would not be such as to destroy a single advantage to be looked for from the
uncontrolled agency of that Magistrate. The right of nomination would produce all the [good,
without the ill.]E1 [good of that of appointment, and would in a great measure avoid its evils.]E1

Upon a comparison of the plan for the appointment of the officers of the proposed government
with that which is established by the constitution of this State, a decided preference must be
given to the former. In that plan the power of nomination is unequivocally vested in the
Executive. And as there would be a necessity for submitting each nomination to the judgment of
an entire branch of the legislature, the circumstances attending an appointment, from the mode of
conducting it, would naturally become matters of notoriety; and the public would be at no loss to
determine what part had been performed by the different actors. The blame of a bad nomination
would fall upon the President singly and absolutely. The censure of rejecting a good one would
lie entirely at the door of the Senate; aggravated by the consideration of their having
counteracted the good intentions of the Executive. If an ill appointment should be made, the
Executive for nominating, and the Senate for approving, would participate, though in different
degrees, in the opprobrium and disgrace.

The reverse of all this characterizes the manner of appointment in this State. The council of
appointment consists of from three to five persons, of whom the governor is always one. This
small body, shut up in a private apartment, impenetrable to the public eye, proceed to the
execution of the trust committed to them. It is known that the governor claims the right of
nomination, upon the strength of some ambiguous expressions in the constitution; but it is not
known to what extent, or in what manner he exercises it; nor upon what occasions he is
contradicted or opposed. The censure of a bad appointment, on account of the uncertainty of its
author, and for want of a determinate object, has neither poignancy nor duration. And while an
unbounded field for cabal and intrigue lies open, all idea of responsibility is lost. The most that
the public can know, is that the governor claims the right of nomination; that two out of the
inconsiderable number of four men can too often be managed without much difficulty; that if
some of the members of a particular council should happen to be of an uncomplying character, it
is frequently not impossible to get rid of their opposition by regulating the times of meeting in
such a manner as to render their attendance inconvenient; and that from whatever cause it may
proceed, a great number of very improper appointments are from time to time made. Whether a
governor of this State avails himself of the ascendant he must necessarily have, in this delicate
and important part of the administration, to prefer to offices men who are best qualified for them,
or whether he prostitutes that advantage to the advancement of persons whose chief merit is their
implicit devotion to his will, and to the support of a despicable and dangerous system of personal
influence, are questions which, unfortunately for the community, can only be the subjects of
speculation and conjecture.




                                                                344
 
                               


Every mere council of appointment, however constituted, will be a conclave, in which cabal and
intrigue will have their full scope. Their number, without an unwarrantable increase of expense,
cannot be large enough to preclude a facility of combination. And as each member will have his
friends and connections to provide for, the desire of mutual gratification will beget a scandalous
bartering of votes and bargaining for places. The private attachments of one man might easily be
satisfied; but to satisfy the private attachments of a dozen, or of twenty men, would occasion a
monopoly of all the principal employments of the government in a few families, and would lead
more directly to an aristocracy or an oligarchy than any measure that could be contrived. If, to
avoid an accumulation of offices, there was to be a frequent change in the persons who were to
compose the council, this would involve the mischiefs of a mutable administration in their full
extent. Such a council would also be more liable to executive influence than the Senate, because
they would be fewer in number, and would act less immediately under the public inspection.
Such a council, in fine, as a substitute for the plan of the convention, would be productive of an
increase of expense, a multiplication of the evils which spring from favoritism and intrigue in the
distribution of public honors, a decrease of stability in the administration of the government, and
a diminution of the security against an undue influence of the Executive. And yet such a council
has been warmly contended for as an essential amendment in the proposed Constitution.

I could not with propriety conclude my observations on the subject of appointments without
taking notice of a scheme for which there have appeared some, though but few advocates; I mean
that of uniting the House of Representatives in the power of making them. I shall, however, do
little more than mention it, as I cannot imagine that it is likely to gain the countenance of any
considerable part of the community. A body so fluctuating and at the same time so numerous,
can never be deemed proper for the exercise of that power. Its unfitness will appear manifest to
all, when it is recollected that in half a century it may consist of three or four hundred persons.
All the advantages of the stability, both of the Executive and of the Senate, would be defeated by
this union, and infinite delays and embarrassments would be occasioned. The example of most of
the States in their local constitutions encourages us to reprobate the idea.

The only remaining powers of the Executive are comprehended in giving information to
Congress of the state of the Union; in recommending to their consideration such measures as he
shall judge expedient; in convening them, or either branch, upon extraordinary occasions; in
adjourning them when they cannot themselves agree upon the time of adjournment; in receiving
ambassadors and other public ministers; in faithfully executing the laws; and in commissioning
all the officers of the United States.

Except some cavils about the power of convening either house of the legislature, and that of
receiving ambassadors, no objection has been made to this class of authorities; nor could they
possibly admit of any. It required, indeed, an insatiable avidity for censure to invent exceptions
to the parts which have been excepted to. In regard to the power of convening either house of the
legislature, I shall barely remark, that in respect to the Senate at least, we can readily discover a
good reason for it. AS this body has a concurrent power with the Executive in the article of
treaties, it might often be necessary to call it together with a view to this object, when it would be



                                                                  345
 
                               


unnecessary and improper to convene the House of Representatives. As to the reception of
ambassadors, what I have said in a former paper will furnish a sufficient answer.

We have now completed a survey of the structure and powers of the executive department,
which, I have endeavored to show, combines, as far as republican principles will admit, all the
requisites to energy. The remaining inquiry is: Does it also combine the requisites to safety, in a
republican sense — a due dependence on the people, a due responsibility? The answer to this
question has been anticipated in the investigation of its other characteristics, and is satisfactorily
deducible from these circumstances; from the election of the President once in four years by
persons immediately chosen by the people for that purpose; and from his being at all times liable
to impeachment, trial, dismission from office, incapacity to serve in any other, and to forfeiture
of life and estate by subsequent prosecution in the common course of law. But these precautions,
great as they are, are not the only ones which the plan of the convention has provided in favor of
the public security. In the only instances in which the abuse of the executive authority was
materially to be feared, the Chief Magistrate of the United States would, by that plan, be
subjected to the control of a branch of the legislative body. What more could be desired by an
enlightened and reasonable people?




                                                                   346
 
                               



Federalist No. 78 - The Judiciary Department
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Saturday, June 14, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

WE PROCEED now to an examination of the judiciary department of the proposed government.

In unfolding the defects of the existing Confederation, the utility and necessity of a federal
judicature have been clearly pointed out. It is the less necessary to recapitulate the considerations
there urged, as the propriety of the institution in the abstract is not disputed; the only questions
which have been raised being relative to the manner of constituting it, and to its extent. To these
points, therefore, our observations shall be confined.

The manner of constituting it seems to embrace these several objects: 1st. The mode of
appointing the judges. 2d. The tenure by which they are to hold their places. 3d. The partition of
the judiciary authority between different courts, and their relations to each other.

First. As to the mode of appointing the judges; this is the same with that of appointing the
officers of the Union in general, and has been so fully discussed in the two last numbers, that
nothing can be said here which would not be useless repetition.

Second. As to the tenure by which the judges are to hold their places; this chiefly concerns their
duration in office; the provisions for their support; the precautions for their responsibility.

According to the plan of the convention, all judges who may be appointed by the United States
are to hold their offices during good behavior; which is conformable to the most approved of the
State constitutions and among the rest, to that of this State. Its propriety having been drawn into
question by the adversaries of that plan, is no light symptom of the rage for objection, which
disorders their imaginations and judgments. The standard of good behavior for the continuance
in office of the judicial magistracy, is certainly one of the most valuable of the modern
improvements in the practice of government. In a monarchy it is an excellent barrier to the
despotism of the prince; in a republic it is a no less excellent barrier to the encroachments and
oppressions of the representative body. And it is the best expedient which can be devised in any
government, to secure a steady, upright, and impartial administration of the laws.

Whoever attentively considers the different departments of power must perceive, that, in a
government in which they are separated from each other, the judiciary, from the nature of its
functions, will always be the least dangerous to the political rights of the Constitution; because it
will be least in a capacity to annoy or injure them. The Executive not only dispenses the honors,
but holds the sword of the community. The legislature not only commands the purse, but



                                                                  347
 
                                


prescribes the rules by which the duties and rights of every citizen are to be regulated. The
judiciary, on the contrary, has no influence over either the sword or the purse; no direction either
of the strength or of the wealth of the society; and can take no active resolution whatever. It may
truly be said to have neither FORCE nor WILL, but merely judgment; and must ultimately
depend upon the aid of the executive arm even for the efficacy of its judgments.

This simple view of the matter suggests several important consequences. It proves incontestably,
that the judiciary is beyond comparison the weakest of the three departments of power1; that it
can never attack with success either of the other two; and that all possible care is requisite to
enable it to defend itself against their attacks. It equally proves, that though individual oppression
may now and then proceed from the courts of justice, the general liberty of the people can never
be endangered from that quarter; I mean so long as the judiciary remains truly distinct from both
the legislature and the Executive. For I agree, that “there is no liberty, if the power of judging be
not separated from the legislative and executive powers.”2 And it proves, in the last place, that as
liberty can have nothing to fear from the judiciary alone, but would have every thing to fear from
its union with either of the other departments; that as all the effects of such a union must ensue
from a dependence of the former on the latter, notwithstanding a nominal and apparent
separation; that as, from the natural feebleness of the judiciary, it is in continual jeopardy of
being overpowered, awed, or influenced by its co-ordinate branches; and that as nothing can
contribute so much to its firmness and independence as permanency in office, this quality may
therefore be justly regarded as an indispensable ingredient in its constitution, and, in a great
measure, as the citadel of the public justice and the public security.

The complete independence of the courts of justice is peculiarly essential in a limited
Constitution. By a limited Constitution, I understand one which contains certain specified
exceptions to the legislative authority; such, for instance, as that it shall pass no bills of attainder,
no ex post facto laws, and the like. Limitations of this kind can be preserved in practice no other
way than through the medium of courts of justice, whose duty it must be to declare all acts
contrary to the manifest tenor of the Constitution void. Without this, all the reservations of
particular rights or privileges would amount to nothing.

Some perplexity respecting the rights of the courts to pronounce legislative acts void, because
contrary to the Constitution, has arisen from an imagination that the doctrine would imply a
superiority of the judiciary to the legislative power. It is urged that the authority which can
declare the acts of another void, must necessarily be superior to the one whose acts may be
declared void. As this doctrine is of great importance in all the American constitutions, a brief
discussion of the ground on which it rests cannot be unacceptable.

There is no position which depends on clearer principles, than that every act of a delegated
authority, contrary to the tenor of the commission under which it is exercised, is void. No
legislative act, therefore, contrary to the Constitution, can be valid. To deny this, would be to
affirm, that the deputy is greater than his principal; that the servant is above his master; that the




                                                                     348
 
                               


representatives of the people are superior to the people themselves; that men acting by virtue of
powers, may do not only what their powers do not authorize, but what they forbid.

If it be said that the legislative body are themselves the constitutional judges of their own
powers, and that the construction they put upon them is conclusive upon the other departments, it
may be answered, that this cannot be the natural presumption, where it is not to be collected from
any particular provisions in the Constitution. It is not otherwise to be supposed, that the
Constitution could intend to enable the representatives of the people to substitute their will to
that of their constituents. It is far more rational to suppose, that the courts were designed to be an
intermediate body between the people and the legislature, in order, among other things, to keep
the latter within the limits assigned to their authority. The interpretation of the laws is the proper
and peculiar province of the courts. A constitution is, in fact, and must be regarded by the judges,
as a fundamental law. It therefore belongs to them to ascertain its meaning, as well as the
meaning of any particular act proceeding from the legislative body. If there should happen to be
an irreconcilable variance between the two, that which has the superior obligation and validity
ought, of course, to be preferred; or, in other words, the Constitution ought to be preferred to the
statute, the intention of the people to the intention of their agents.

Nor does this conclusion by any means suppose a superiority of the judicial to the legislative
power. It only supposes that the power of the people is superior to both; and that where the will
of the legislature, declared in its statutes, stands in opposition to that of the people, declared in
the Constitution, the judges ought to be governed by the latter rather than the former. They ought
to regulate their decisions by the fundamental laws, rather than by those which are not
fundamental.

This exercise of judicial discretion, in determining between two contradictory laws, is
exemplified in a familiar instance. It not uncommonly happens, that there are two statutes
existing at one time, clashing in whole or in part with each other, and neither of them containing
any repealing clause or expression. In such a case, it is the province of the courts to liquidate and
fix their meaning and operation. So far as they can, by any fair construction, be reconciled to
each other, reason and law conspire to dictate that this should be done; where this is
impracticable, it becomes a matter of necessity to give effect to one, in exclusion of the other.
The rule which has obtained in the courts for determining their relative validity is, that the last in
order of time shall be preferred to the first. But this is a mere rule of construction, not derived
from any positive law, but from the nature and reason of the thing. It is a rule not enjoined upon
the courts by legislative provision, but adopted by themselves, as consonant to truth and
propriety, for the direction of their conduct as interpreters of the law. They thought it reasonable,
that between the interfering acts of an EQUAL authority, that which was the last indication of its
will should have the preference.

But in regard to the interfering acts of a superior and subordinate authority, of an original and
derivative power, the nature and reason of the thing indicate the converse of that rule as proper to
be followed. They teach us that the prior act of a superior ought to be preferred to the subsequent



                                                                   349
 
                               


act of an inferior and subordinate authority; and that accordingly, whenever a particular statute
contravenes the Constitution, it will be the duty of the judicial tribunals to adhere to the latter and
disregard the former.

It can be of no weight to say that the courts, on the pretense of a repugnancy, may substitute their
own pleasure to the constitutional intentions of the legislature. This might as well happen in the
case of two contradictory statutes; or it might as well happen in every adjudication upon any
single statute. The courts must declare the sense of the law; and if they should be disposed to
exercise WILL instead of JUDGMENT, the consequence would equally be the substitution of
their pleasure to that of the legislative body. The observation, if it prove any thing, would prove
that there ought to be no judges distinct from that body.

If, then, the courts of justice are to be considered as the bulwarks of a limited Constitution
against legislative encroachments, this consideration will afford a strong argument for the
permanent tenure of judicial offices, since nothing will contribute so much as this to that
independent spirit in the judges which must be essential to the faithful performance of so arduous
a duty.

This independence of the judges is equally requisite to guard the Constitution and the rights of
individuals from the effects of those ill humors, which the arts of designing men, or the influence
of particular conjunctures, sometimes disseminate among the people themselves, and which,
though they speedily give place to better information, and more deliberate reflection, have a
tendency, in the meantime, to occasion dangerous innovations in the government, and serious
oppressions of the minor party in the community. Though I trust the friends of the proposed
Constitution will never concur with its enemies,3 in questioning that fundamental principle of
republican government, which admits the right of the people to alter or abolish the established
Constitution, whenever they find it inconsistent with their happiness, yet it is not to be inferred
from this principle, that the representatives of the people, whenever a momentary inclination
happens to lay hold of a majority of their constituents, incompatible with the provisions in the
existing Constitution, would, on that account, be justifiable in a violation of those provisions; or
that the courts would be under a greater obligation to connive at infractions in this shape, than
when they had proceeded wholly from the cabals of the representative body. Until the people
have, by some solemn and authoritative act, annulled or changed the established form, it is
binding upon themselves collectively, as well as individually; and no presumption, or even
knowledge, of their sentiments, can warrant their representatives in a departure from it, prior to
such an act. But it is easy to see, that it would require an uncommon portion of fortitude in the
judges to do their duty as faithful guardians of the Constitution, where legislative invasions of it
had been instigated by the major voice of the community.

But it is not with a view to infractions of the Constitution only, that the independence of the
judges may be an essential safeguard against the effects of occasional ill humors in the society.
These sometimes extend no farther than to the injury of the private rights of particular classes of
citizens, by unjust and partial laws. Here also the firmness of the judicial magistracy is of vast



                                                                   350
 
                               


importance in mitigating the severity and confining the operation of such laws. It not only serves
to moderate the immediate mischiefs of those which may have been passed, but it operates as a
check upon the legislative body in passing them; who, perceiving that obstacles to the success of
iniquitous intention are to be expected from the scruples of the courts, are in a manner
compelled, by the very motives of the injustice they meditate, to qualify their attempts. This is a
circumstance calculated to have more influence upon the character of our governments, than but
few may be aware of. The benefits of the integrity and moderation of the judiciary have already
been felt in more States than one; and though they may have displeased those whose sinister
expectations they may have disappointed, they must have commanded the esteem and applause
of all the virtuous and disinterested. Considerate men, of every description, ought to prize
whatever will tend to beget or fortify that temper in the courts: as no man can be sure that he may
not be to-morrow the victim of a spirit of injustice, by which he may be a gainer to-day. And
every man must now feel, that the inevitable tendency of such a spirit is to sap the foundations of
public and private confidence, and to introduce in its stead universal distrust and distress.

That inflexible and uniform adherence to the rights of the Constitution, and of individuals, which
we perceive to be indispensable in the courts of justice, can certainly not be expected from
judges who hold their offices by a temporary commission. Periodical appointments, however
regulated, or by whomsoever made, would, in some way or other, be fatal to their necessary
independence. If the power of making them was committed either to the Executive or legislature,
there would be danger of an improper complaisance to the branch which possessed it; if to both,
there would be an unwillingness to hazard the displeasure of either; if to the people, or to persons
chosen by them for the special purpose, there would be too great a disposition to consult
popularity, to justify a reliance that nothing would be consulted but the Constitution and the
laws.

There is yet a further and a weightier reason for the permanency of the judicial offices, which is
deducible from the nature of the qualifications they require. It has been frequently remarked,
with great propriety, that a voluminous code of laws is one of the inconveniences necessarily
connected with the advantages of a free government. To avoid an arbitrary discretion in the
courts, it is indispensable that they should be bound down by strict rules and precedents, which
serve to define and point out their duty in every particular case that comes before them; and it
will readily be conceived from the variety of controversies which grow out of the folly and
wickedness of mankind, that the records of those precedents must unavoidably swell to a very
considerable bulk, and must demand long and laborious study to acquire a competent knowledge
of them. Hence it is, that there can be but few men in the society who will have sufficient skill in
the laws to qualify them for the stations of judges. And making the proper deductions for the
ordinary depravity of human nature, the number must be still smaller of those who unite the
requisite integrity with the requisite knowledge. These considerations apprise us, that the
government can have no great option between fit character; and that a temporary duration in
office, which would naturally discourage such characters from quitting a lucrative line of
practice to accept a seat on the bench, would have a tendency to throw the administration of
justice into hands less able, and less well qualified, to conduct it with utility and dignity. In the



                                                                  351
 
                              


present circumstances of this country, and in those in which it is likely to be for a long time to
come, the disadvantages on this score would be greater than they may at first sight appear; but it
must be confessed, that they are far inferior to those which present themselves under the other
aspects of the subject.

Upon the whole, there can be no room to doubt that the convention acted wisely in copying from
the models of those constitutions which have established good behavior as the tenure of their
judicial offices, in point of duration; and that so far from being blamable on this account, their
plan would have been inexcusably defective, if it had wanted this important feature of good
government. The experience of Great Britain affords an illustrious comment on the excellence of
the institution.




                                                                352
 
                               



Federalist No. 79 - The Judiciary Continued
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, June 18, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

NEXT to permanency in office, nothing can contribute more to the independence of the judges
than a fixed provision for their support. The remark made in relation to the President is equally
applicable here. In the general course of human nature, a power over a man’s subsistence
amounts to a power over his will. And we can never hope to see realized in practice, the
complete separation of the judicial from the legislative power, in any system which leaves the
former dependent for pecuniary resources on the occasional grants of the latter. The enlightened
friends to good government in every State, have seen cause to lament the want of precise and
explicit precautions in the State constitutions on this head. Some of these indeed have declared
that permanent salaries should be established for the judges; but the experiment has in some
instances shown that such expressions are not sufficiently definite to preclude legislative
evasions. Something still more positive and unequivocal has been evinced to be requisite. The
plan of the convention accordingly has provided that the judges of the United States "shall at
stated times receive for their services a compensation which shall not be diminished during their
continuance in office."

This, all circumstances considered, is the most eligible provision that could have been devised. It
will readily be understood that the fluctuations in the value of money and in the state of society
rendered a fixed rate of compensation in the Constitution inadmissible. What might be
extravagant to-day, might in half a century become penurious and inadequate. It was therefore
necessary to leave it to the discretion of the legislature to vary its provisions in conformity to the
variations in circumstances, yet under such restrictions as to put it out of the power of that body
to change the condition of the individual for the worse. A man may then be sure of the ground
upon which he stands, and can never be deterred from his duty by the apprehension of being
placed in a less eligible situation. The clause which has been quoted combines both advantages.
The salaries of judicial officers may from time to time be altered, as occasion shall require, yet
so as never to lessen the allowance with which any particular judge comes into office, in respect
to him. It will be observed that a difference has been made by the convention between the
compensation of the President and of the judges, That of the former can neither be increased nor
diminished; that of the latter can only not be diminished. This probably arose from the difference
in the duration of the respective offices. As the President is to be elected for no more than four
years, it can rarely happen that an adequate salary, fixed at the commencement of that period,
will not continue to be such to its end. But with regard to the judges, who, if they behave
properly, will be secured in their places for life, it may well happen, especially in the early stages
of the government, that a stipend, which would be very sufficient at their first appointment,
would become too small in the progress of their service.



                                                                  353
 
                               



This provision for the support of the judges bears every mark of prudence and efficacy; and it
may be safely affirmed that, together with the permanent tenure of their offices, it affords a better
prospect of their independence than is discoverable in the constitutions of any of the States in
regard to their own judges.

The precautions for their responsibility are comprised in the article respecting impeachments.
They are liable to be impeached for malconduct by the House of Representatives, and tried by
the Senate; and, if convicted, may be dismissed from office, and disqualified for holding any
other. This is the only provision on the point which is consistent with the necessary
independence of the judicial character, and is the only one which we find in our own
Constitution in respect to our own judges.

The want of a provision for removing the judges on account of inability has been a subject of
complaint. But all considerate men will be sensible that such a provision would either not be
practiced upon or would be more liable to abuse than calculated to answer any good purpose.
The mensuration of the faculties of the mind has, I believe, no place in the catalogue of known
arts. An attempt to fix the boundary between the regions of ability and inability, would much
oftener give scope to personal and party attachments and enmities than advance the interests of
justice or the public good. The result, except in the case of insanity, must for the most part be
arbitrary; and insanity, without any formal or express provision, may be safely pronounced to be
a virtual disqualification.

The constitution of New York, to avoid investigations that must forever be vague and dangerous,
has taken a particular age as the criterion of inability. No man can be a judge beyond sixty. I
believe there are few at present who do not disapprove of this provision. There is no station, in
relation to which it is less proper than to that of a judge. The deliberating and comparing
faculties generally preserve their strength much beyond that period in men who survive it; and
when, in addition to this circumstance, we consider how few there are who outlive the season of
intellectual vigor, and how improbable it is that any considerable portion of the bench, whether
more or less numerous, should be in such a situation at the same time, we shall be ready to
conclude that limitations of this sort have little to recommend them. In a republic, where fortunes
are not affluent, and pensions not expedient, the dismission of men from stations in which they
have served their country long and usefully, on which they depend for subsistence, and from
which it will be too late to resort to any other occupation for a livelihood, ought to have some
better apology to humanity than is to be found in the imaginary danger of a superannuated bench.




                                                                 354
 
                               



Federalist No. 80 - The Powers of the Judiciary
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Saturday, June 21, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

TO JUDGE with accuracy of the proper extent of the federal judicature, it will be necessary to
consider, in the first place, what are its proper objects.

It seems scarcely to admit of controversy, that the judicary authority of the Union ought to
extend to these several descriptions of cases: 1st, to all those which arise out of the laws of the
United States, passed in pursuance of their just and constitutional powers of legislation; 2d, to all
those which concern the execution of the provisions expressly contained in the articles of Union;
3d, to all those in which the United States are a party; 4th, to all those which involve the PEACE
of the CONFEDERACY, whether they relate to the intercourse between the United States and
foreign nations, or to that between the States themselves; 5th, to all those which originate on the
high seas, and are of admiralty or maritime jurisdiction; and, lastly, to all those in which the State
tribunals cannot be supposed to be impartial and unbiased.

The first point depends upon this obvious consideration, that there ought always to be a
constitutional method of giving efficacy to constitutional provisions. What, for instance, would
avail restrictions on the authority of the State legislatures, without some constitutional mode of
enforcing the observance of them? The States, by the plan of the convention, are prohibited from
doing a variety of things, some of which are incompatible with the interests of the Union, and
others with the principles of good government. The imposition of duties on imported articles, and
the emission of paper money, are specimens of each kind. No man of sense will believe, that
such prohibitions would be scrupulously regarded, without some effectual power in the
government to restrain or correct the infractions of them. This power must either be a direct
negative on the State laws, or an authority in the federal courts to overrule such as might be in
manifest contravention of the articles of Union. There is no third course that I can imagine. The
latter appears to have been thought by the convention preferable to the former, and, I presume,
will be most agreeable to the States.

As to the second point, it is impossible, by any argument or comment, to make it clearer than it is
in itself. If there are such things as political axioms, the propriety of the judicial power of a
government being coextensive with its legislative, may be ranked among the number. The mere
necessity of uniformity in the interpretation of the national laws, decides the question. Thirteen
independent courts of final jurisdiction over the same causes, arising upon the same laws, is a
hydra in government, from which nothing but contradiction and confusion can proceed.




                                                                  355
 
                               


Still less need be said in regard to the third point. Controversies between the nation and its
members or citizens, can only be properly referred to the national tribunals. Any other plan
would be contrary to reason, to precedent, and to decorum.

The fourth point rests on this plain proposition, that the peace of the WHOLE ought not to be left
at the disposal of a PART. The Union will undoubtedly be answerable to foreign powers for the
conduct of its members. And the responsibility for an injury ought ever to be accompanied with
the faculty of preventing it. As the denial or perversion of justice by the sentences of courts, as
well as in any other manner, is with reason classed among the just causes of war, it will follow
that the federal judiciary ought to have cognizance of all causes in which the citizens of other
countries are concerned. This is not less essential to the preservation of the public faith, than to
the security of the public tranquillity. A distinction may perhaps be imagined between cases
arising upon treaties and the laws of nations and those which may stand merely on the footing of
the municipal law. The former kind may be supposed proper for the federal jurisdiction, the latter
for that of the States. But it is at least problematical, whether an unjust sentence against a
foreigner, where the subject of controversy was wholly relative to the lex loci, would not, if
unredressed, be an aggression upon his sovereign, as well as one which violated the stipulations
of a treaty or the general law of nations. And a still greater objection to the distinction would
result from the immense difficulty, if not impossibility, of a practical discrimination between the
cases of one complexion and those of the other. So great a proportion of the cases in which
foreigners are parties, involve national questions, that it is by far most safe and most expedient to
refer all those in which they are concerned to the national tribunals.

The power of determining causes between two States, between one State and the citizens of
another, and between the citizens of different States, is perhaps not less essential to the peace of
the Union than that which has been just examined. History gives us a horrid picture of the
dissensions and private wars which distracted and desolated Germany prior to the institution of
the Imperial Chamber by Maximilian, towards the close of the fifteenth century; and informs us,
at the same time, of the vast influence of that institution in appeasing the disorders and
establishing the tranquillity of the empire. This was a court invested with authority to decide
finally all differences among the members of the Germanic body.

A method of terminating territorial disputes between the States, under the authority of the federal
head, was not unattended to, even in the imperfect system by which they have been hitherto held
together. But there are many other sources, besides interfering claims of boundary, from which
bickerings and animosities may spring up among the members of the Union. To some of these
we have been witnesses in the course of our past experience. It will readily be conjectured that I
allude to the fraudulent laws which have been passed in too many of the States. And though the
proposed Constitution establishes particular guards against the repetition of those instances
which have heretofore made their appearance, yet it is warrantable to apprehend that the spirit
which produced them will assume new shapes, that could not be foreseen nor specifically
provided against. Whatever practices may have a tendency to disturb the harmony between the
States, are proper objects of federal superintendence and control.



                                                                 356
 
                               



It may be esteemed the basis of the Union, that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
the privileges and immunities of citizens of the several States." And if it be a just principle that
every government ought to possess the means of executing its own provisions by its own
authority, it will follow, that in order to the inviolable maintenance of that equality of privileges
and immunities to which the citizens of the Union will be entitled, the national judiciary ought to
preside in all cases in which one State or its citizens are opposed to another State or its citizens.
To secure the full effect of so fundamental a provision against all evasion and subterfuge, it is
necessary that its construction should be committed to that tribunal which, having no local
attachments, will be likely to be impartial between the different States and their citizens, and
which, owing its official existence to the Union, will never be likely to feel any bias inauspicious
to the principles on which it is founded.

The fifth point will demand little animadversion. The most bigoted idolizers of State authority
have not thus far shown a disposition to deny the national judiciary the cognizances of maritime
causes. These so generally depend on the laws of nations, and so commonly affect the rights of
foreigners, that they fall within the considerations which are relative to the public peace. The
most important part of them are, by the present Confederation, submitted to federal jurisdiction.

The reasonableness of the agency of the national courts in cases in which the State tribunals
cannot be supposed to be impartial, speaks for itself. No man ought certainly to be a judge in his
own cause, or in any cause in respect to which he has the least interest or bias. This principle has
no inconsiderable weight in designating the federal courts as the proper tribunals for the
determination of controversies between different States and their citizens. And it ought to have
the same operation in regard to some cases between citizens of the same State. Claims to land
under grants of different States, founded upon adverse pretensions of boundary, are of this
description. The courts of neither of the granting States could be expected to be unbiased. The
laws may have even prejudged the question, and tied the courts down to decisions in favor of the
grants of the State to which they belonged. And even where this had not been done, it would be
natural that the judges, as men, should feel a strong predilection to the claims of their own
government.

Having thus laid down and discussed the principles which ought to regulate the constitution of
the federal judiciary, we will proceed to test, by these principles, the particular powers of which,
according to the plan of the convention, it is to be composed. It is to comprehend "all cases in
law and equity arising under the Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or
which shall be made, under their authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers, and consuls; to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to
which the United States shall be a party; to controversies between two or more States; between a
State and citizens of another State; between citizens of different States; between citizens of the
same State claiming lands and grants of different States; and between a State or the citizens
thereof and foreign states, citizens, and subjects." This constitutes the entire mass of the judicial
authority of the Union. Let us now review it in detail. It is, then, to extend:



                                                                  357
 
                              



First. To all cases in law and equity, arising under the Constitution and the laws of the United
States. This corresponds with the two first classes of causes, which have been enumerated, as
proper for the jurisdiction of the United States. It has been asked, what is meant by “cases arising
under the Constitution,” in contradiction from those “arising under the laws of the United
States”? The difference has been already explained. All the restrictions upon the authority of the
State legislatures furnish examples of it. They are not, for instance, to emit paper money; but the
interdiction results from the Constitution, and will have no connection with any law of the
United States. Should paper money, notwithstanding, be emited, the controversies concerning it
would be cases arising under the Constitution and not the laws of the United States, in the
ordinary signification of the terms. This may serve as a sample of the whole.

It has also been asked, what need of the word “equity What equitable causes can grow out of the
Constitution and laws of the United States? There is hardly a subject of litigation between
individuals, which may not involve those ingredients of fraud, accident, trust, or hardship, which
would render the matter an object of equitable rather than of legal jurisdiction, as the distinction
is known and established in several of the States. It is the peculiar province, for instance, of a
court of equity to relieve against what are called hard bargains: these are contracts in which,
though there may have been no direct fraud or deceit, sufficient to invalidate them in a court of
law, yet there may have been some undue and unconscionable advantage taken of the necessities
or misfortunes of one of the parties, which a court of equity would not tolerate. In such cases,
where foreigners were concerned on either side, it would be impossible for the federal
judicatories to do justice without an equitable as well as a legal jurisdiction. Agreements to
convey lands claimed under the grants of different States, may afford another example of the
necessity of an equitable jurisdiction in the federal courts. This reasoning may not be so palpable
in those States where the formal and technical distinction between LAW and EQUITY is not
maintained, as in this State, where it is exemplified by every day’s practice.

The judiciary authority of the Union is to extend:

Second. To treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, and
to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls. These belong to the
fourth class of the enumerated cases, as they have an evident connection with the preservation of
the national peace.

Third. To cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. These form, altogether, the fifth of the
enumerated classes of causes proper for the cognizance of the national courts.

Fourth. To controversies to which the United States shall be a party. These constitute the third of
those classes.




                                                                 358
 
                              


Fifth. To controversies between two or more States; between a State and citizens of another
State; between citizens of different States. These belong to the fourth of those classes, and
partake, in some measure, of the nature of the last.

Sixth. To cases between the citizens of the same State, claiming lands under grants of different
States. These fall within the last class, and are the only instances in which the proposed
Constitution directly contemplates the cognizance of disputes between the citizens of the same
State.

Seventh. To cases between a State and the citizens thereof, and foreign States, citizens, or
subjects. These have been already explained to belong to the fourth of the enumerated classes,
and have been shown to be, in a peculiar manner, the proper subjects of the national judicature.

From this review of the particular powers of the federal judiciary, as marked out in the
Constitution, it appears that they are all conformable to the principles which ought to have
governed the structure of that department, and which were necessary to the perfection of the
system. If some partial inconviences should appear to be connected with the incorporation of any
of them into the plan, it ought to be recollected that the national legislature will have ample
authority to make such exceptions, and to prescribe such regulations as will be calculated to
obviate or remove these inconveniences. The possibility of particular mischiefs can never be
viewed, by a well informed mind, as a solid objection to a general principle, which is calculated
to avoid general mischiefs and to obtain general advantages.




                                                               359
 
                               



Federalist No. 81 - The Judiciary Continued, and the Distribution of
the Judicial Authority
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, June 25, Saturday, June 28, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

LET US now return to the partition of the judiciary authority between different courts, and their
relations to each other.

"The judicial power of the United States is" (by the plan of the convention) "to be vested in one
Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress may, from time to time, ordain and
establish."

That there ought to be one court of supreme and final jurisdiction, is a proposition which is not
likely to be contested. The reasons for it have been assigned in another place, and are too
obvious to need repetition. The only question that seems to have been raised concerning it, is,
whether it ought to be a distinct body or a branch of the legislature. The same contradiction is
observable in regard to this matter which has been remarked in several other cases. The very men
who object to the Senate as a court of impeachments, on the ground of an improper intermixture
of powers, advocate, by implication at least, the propriety of vesting the ultimate decision of all
causes, in the whole or in a part of the legislative body.

The arguments, or rather suggestions, upon which this charge is founded, are to this effect: "The
authority of the proposed Supreme Court of the United States, which is to be a separate and
independent body, will be superior to that of the legislature. The power of construing the laws
according to the spirit of the Constitution, will enable that court to mould them into whatever
shape it may think proper; especially as its decisions will not be in any manner subject to the
revision or correction of the legislative body. This is as unprecedented as it is dangerous. In
Britain, the judical power, in the last resort, resides in the House of Lords, which is a branch of
the legislature; and this part of the British government has been imitated in the State
constitutions in general. The Parliament of Great Britain, and the legislatures of the several
States, can at any time rectify, by law, the exceptionable decisions of their respective courts. But
the errors and usurpations of the Supreme Court of the United States will be uncontrollable and
remediless." This, upon examination, will be found to be made up altogether of false reasoning
upon misconceived fact.

In the first place, there is not a syllable in the plan under consideration which directly empowers
the national courts to construe the laws according to the spirit of the Constitution, or which gives
them any greater latitude in this respect than may be claimed by the courts of every State. I
admit, however, that the Constitution ought to be the standard of construction for the laws, and


                                                                 360
 
                               


that wherever there is an evident opposition, the laws ought to give place to the Constitution. But
this doctrine is not deducible from any circumstance peculiar to the plan of the convention, but
from the general theory of a limited Constitution; and as far as it is true, is equally applicable to
most, if not to all the State governments. There can be no objection, therefore, on this account, to
the federal judicature which will not lie against the local judicatures in general, and which will
not serve to condemn every constitution that attempts to set bounds to legislative discretion.

But perhaps the force of the objection may be thought to consist in the particular organization of
the Supreme Court; in its being composed of a distinct body of magistrates, instead of being one
of the branches of the legislature, as in the government of Great Britain and that of the State. To
insist upon this point, the authors of the objection must renounce the meaning they have labored
to annex to the celebrated maxim, requiring a separation of the departments of power. It shall,
nevertheless, be conceded to them, agreeably to the interpretation given to that maxim in the
course of these papers, that it is not violated by vesting the ultimate power of judging in a PART
of the legislative body. But though this be not an absolute violation of that excellent rule, yet it
verges so nearly upon it, as on this account alone to be less eligible than the mode preferred by
the convention. From a body which had even a partial agency in passing bad laws, we could
rarely expect a disposition to temper and moderate them in the application. The same spirit
which had operated in making them, would be too apt in interpreting them; still less could it be
expected that men who had infringed the Constitution in the character of legislators, would be
disposed to repair the breach in the character of judges. Nor is this all. Every reason which
recommends the tenure of good behavior for judicial offices, militates against placing the
judiciary power, in the last resort, in a body composed of men chosen for a limited period. There
is an absurdity in referring the determination of causes, in the first instance, to judges of
permanent standing; in the last, to those of a temporary and mutable constitution. And there is a
still greater absurdity in subjecting the decisions of men, selected for their knowledge of the
laws, acquired by long and laborious study, to the revision and control of men who, for want of
the same advantage, cannot but be deficient in that knowledge. The members of the legislature
will rarely be chosen with a view to those qualifications which fit men for the stations of judges;
and as, on this account, there will be great reason to apprehend all the ill consequences of
defective information, so, on account of the natural propensity of such bodies to party divisions,
there will be no less reason to fear that the pestilential breath of faction may poison the fountains
of justice. The habit of being continually marshalled on opposite sides will be too apt to stifle the
voice both of law and of equity.

These considerations teach us to applaud the wisdom of those States who have committed the
judicial power, in the last resort, not to a part of the legislature, but to distinct and independent
bodies of men. Contrary to the supposition of those who have represented the plan of the
convention, in this respect, as novel and unprecedented, it is but a copy of the constitutions of
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, and Georgia; and the preference which has been given to those models is highly
to be commended.




                                                                  361
 
                               


It is not true, in the second place, that the Parliament of Great Britain, or the legislatures of the
particular States, can rectify the exceptionable decisions of their respective courts, in any other
sense than might be done by a future legislature of the United States. The theory, neither of the
British, nor the State constitutions, authorizes the revisal of a judicial sentence by a legislative
act. Nor is there any thing in the proposed Constitution, more than in either of them, by which it
is forbidden. In the former, as well as in the latter, the impropriety of the thing, on the general
principles of law and reason, is the sole obstacle. A legislature, without exceeding its province,
cannot reverse a determination once made in a particular case; though it may prescribe a new
rule for future cases. This is the principle, and it applies in all its consequences, exactly in the
same manner and extent, to the State governments, as to the national government now under
consideration. Not the least difference can be pointed out in any view of the subject.

It may in the last place be observed that the supposed danger of judiciary encroachments on the
legislative authority, which has been upon many occasions reiterated, is in reality a phantom.
Particular misconstructions and contraventions of the will of the legislature may now and then
happen; but they can never be so extensive as to amount to an inconvenience, or in any sensible
degree to affect the order of the political system. This may be inferred with certainty, from the
general nature of the judicial power, from the objects to which it relates, from the manner in
which it is exercised, from its comparative weakness, and from its total incapacity to support its
usurpations by force. And the inference is greatly fortified by the consideration of the important
constitutional check which the power of instituting impeachments in one part of the legislative
body, and of determining upon them in the other, would give to that body upon the members of
the judicial department. This is alone a complete security. There never can be danger that the
judges, by a series of deliberate usurpations on the authority of the legislature, would hazard the
united resentment of the body intrusted with it, while this body was possessed of the means of
punishing their presumption, by degrading them from their stations. While this ought to remove
all apprehensions on the subject, it affords, at the same time, a cogent argument for constituting
the Senate a court for the trial of impeachments.

Having now examined, and, I trust, removed the objections to the distinct and independent
organization of the Supreme Court, I proceed to consider the propriety of the power of
constituting inferior courts, and the relations which will subsist between these and the former.

The power of constituting inferior courts is evidently calculated to obviate the necessity of
having recourse to the Supreme Court in every case of federal cognizance. It is intended to
enable the national government to institute or authorize, in each State or district of the United
States, a tribunal competent to the determination of matters of national jurisdiction within its
limits.

But why, it is asked, might not the same purpose have been accomplished by the instrumentality
of the State courts? This admits of different answers. Though the fitness and competency of
those courts should be allowed in the utmost latitude, yet the substance of the power in question
may still be regarded as a necessary part of the plan, if it were only to empower the national



                                                                   362
 
                                


legislature to commit to them the cognizance of causes arising out of the national Constitution.
To confer the power of determining such causes upon the existing courts of the several States,
would perhaps be as much “to constitute tribunals,” as to create new courts with the like power.
But ought not a more direct and explicit provision to have been made in favor of the State
courts? There are, in my opinion, substantial reasons against such a provision: the most
discerning cannot foresee how far the prevalency of a local spirit may be found to disqualify the
local tribunals for the jurisdiction of national causes; whilst every man may discover, that courts
constituted like those of some of the States would be improper channels of the judicial authority
of the Union. State judges, holding their offices during pleasure, or from year to year, will be too
little independent to be relied upon for an inflexible execution of the national laws. And if there
was a necessity for confiding the original cognizance of causes arising under those laws to them
there would be a correspondent necessity for leaving the door of appeal as wide as possible. In
proportion to the grounds of confidence in, or distrust of, the subordinate tribunals, ought to be
the facility or difficulty of appeals. And well satisfied as I am of the propriety of the appellate
jurisdiction, in the several classes of causes to which it is extended by the plan of the convention.
I should consider every thing calculated to give, in practice, an unrestrained course to appeals, as
a source of public and private inconvenience.

I am not sure, but that it will be found highly expedient and useful, to divide the United States
into four or five or half a dozen districts; and to institute a federal court in each district, in lieu of
one in every State. The judges of these courts, with the aid of the State judges, may hold circuits
for the trial of causes in the several parts of the respective districts. Justice through them may be
administered with ease and despatch; and appeals may be safely circumscribed within a narrow
compass. This plan appears to me at present the most eligible of any that could be adopted; and
in order to it, it is necessary that the power of constituting inferior courts should exist in the full
extent in which it is to be found in the proposed Constitution.

These reasons seem sufficient to satisfy a candid mind, that the want of such a power would have
been a great defect in the plan. Let us now examine in what manner the judicial authority is to be
distributed between the supreme and the inferior courts of the Union.

The Supreme Court is to be invested with original jurisdiction, only “in cases affecting
ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls, and those in which A STATE shall be a party.”
Public ministers of every class are the immediate representatives of their sovereigns. All
questions in which they are concerned are so directly connected with the public peace, that, as
well for the preservation of this, as out of respect to the sovereignties they represent, it is both
expedient and proper that such questions should be submitted in the first instance to the highest
judicatory of the nation. Though consuls have not in strictness a diplomatic character, yet as they
are the public agents of the nations to which they belong, the same observation is in a great
measure applicable to them. In cases in which a State might happen to be a party, it would ill suit
its dignity to be turned over to an inferior tribunal.




                                                                      363
 
                              


Though it may rather be a digression from the immediate subject of this paper, I shall take
occasion to mention here a supposition which has excited some alarm upon very mistaken
grounds. It has been suggested that an assignment of the public securities of one State to the
citizens of another, would enable them to prosecute that State in the federal courts for the amount
of those securities; a suggestion which the following considerations prove to be without
foundation.

It is inherent in the nature of sovereignty not to be amenable to the suit of an individual without
its consent. This is the general sense, and the general practice of mankind; and the exemption, as
one of the attributes of sovereignty, is now enjoyed by the government of every State in the
Union. Unless, therefore, there is a surrender of this immunity in the plan of the convention, it
will remain with the States, and the danger intimated must be merely ideal. The circumstances
which are necessary to produce an alienation of State sovereignty were discussed in considering
the article of taxation, and need not be repeated here. A recurrence to the principles there
established will satisfy us, that there is no color to pretend that the State governments would, by
the adoption of that plan, be divested of the privilege of paying their own debts in their own way,
free from every constraint but that which flows from the obligations of good faith. The contracts
between a nation and individuals are only binding on the conscience of the sovereign, and have
no pretensions to a compulsive force. They confer no right of action, independent of the
sovereign will. To what purpose would it be to authorize suits against States for the debts they
owe? How could recoveries be enforced? It is evident, it could not be done without waging war
against the contracting State; and to ascribe to the federal courts, by mere implication, and in
destruction of a pre-existing right of the State governments, a power which would involve such a
consequence, would be altogether forced and unwarrantable.

Let us resume the train of our observations. We have seen that the original jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court would be confined to two classes of causes, and those of a nature rarely to occur.
In all other cases of federal cognizance, the original jurisdiction would appertain to the inferior
tribunals; and the Supreme Court would have nothing more than an appellate jurisdiction, “with
such exceptions and under such regulations as the Congress shall make.”

The propriety of this appellate jurisdiction has been scarcely called in question in regard to
matters of law; but the clamors have been loud against it as applied to matters of fact. Some
well-intentioned men in this State, deriving their notions from the language and forms which
obtain in our courts, have been induced to consider it as an implied supersedure of the trial by
jury, in favor of the civil-law mode of trial, which prevails in our courts of admiralty, probate,
and chancery. A technical sense has been affixed to the term “appellate,” which, in our law
parlance, is commonly used in reference to appeals in the course of the civil law. But if I am not
misinformed, the same meaning would not be given to it in any part of New England. There an
appeal from one jury to another, is familiar both in language and practice, and is even a matter of
course, until there have been two verdicts on one side. The word “appellate,” therefore, will not
be understood in the same sense in New England as in New York, which shows the impropriety
of a technical interpretation derived from the jurisprudence of any particular State. The



                                                                364
 
                               


expression, taken in the abstract, denotes nothing more than the power of one tribunal to review
the proceedings of another, either as to the law or fact, or both. The mode of doing it may depend
on ancient custom or legislative provision (in a new government it must depend on the latter),
and may be with or without the aid of a jury, as may be judged advisable. If, therefore, the re-
examination of a fact once determined by a jury, should in any case be admitted under the
proposed Constitution, it may be so regulated as to be done by a second jury, either by
remanding the cause to the court below for a second trial of the fact, or by directing an issue
immediately out of the Supreme Court.

But it does not follow that the re-examination of a fact once ascertained by a jury, will be
permitted in the Supreme Court. Why may not it be said, with the strictest propriety, when a writ
of error is brought from an inferior to a superior court of law in this State, that the latter has
jurisdiction of the fact as well as the law? It is true it cannot institute a new inquiry concerning
the fact, but it takes cognizance of it as it appears upon the record, and pronounces the law
arising upon it. This is jurisdiction of both fact and law; nor is it even possible to separate them.
Though the common-law courts of this State ascertain disputed facts by a jury, yet they
unquestionably have jurisdiction of both fact and law; and accordingly when the former is agreed
in the pleadings, they have no recourse to a jury, but proceed at once to judgment. I contend,
therefore, on this ground, that the expressions, “appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact,”
do not necessarily imply a re-examination in the Supreme Court of facts decided by juries in the
inferior courts.

The following train of ideas may well be imagined to have influenced the convention, in relation
to this particular provision. The appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court (it may have been
argued) will extend to causes determinable in different modes, some in the course of the
COMMON LAW, others in the course of the CIVIL LAW. In the former, the revision of the law
only will be, generally speaking, the proper province of the Supreme Court; in the latter, the re-
examination of the fact is agreeable to usage, and in some cases, of which prize causes are an
example, might be essential to the preservation of the public peace. It is therefore necessary that
the appellate jurisdiction should, in certain cases, extend in the broadest sense to matters of fact.
It will not answer to make an express exception of cases which shall have been originally tried
by a jury, because in the courts of some of the States all causes are tried in this mode; and such
an exception would preclude the revision of matters of fact, as well where it might be proper, as
where it might be improper. To avoid all inconveniencies, it will be safest to declare generally,
that the Supreme Court shall possess appellate jurisdiction both as to law and fact, and that this
jurisdiction shall be subject to such exceptions and regulations as the national legislature may
prescribe. This will enable the government to modify it in such a manner as will best answer the
ends of public justice and security.

This view of the matter, at any rate, puts it out of all doubt that the supposed abolition of the trial
by jury, by the operation of this provision, is fallacious and untrue. The legislature of the United
States would certainly have full power to provide, that in appeals to the Supreme Court there
should be no re-examination of facts where they had been tried in the original causes by juries.



                                                                    365
 
                               


This would certainly be an authorized exception; but if, for the reason already intimated, it
should be thought too extensive, it might be qualified with a limitation to such causes only as are
determinable at common law in that mode of trial.

The amount of the observations hitherto made on the authority of the judicial department is this:
that it has been carefully restricted to those causes which are manifestly proper for the
cognizance of the national judicature; that in the partition of this authority a very small portion of
original jurisdiction has been preserved to the Supreme Court, and the rest consigned to the
subordinate tribunals; that the Supreme Court will possess an appellate jurisdiction, both as to
law and fact, in all the cases referred to them, both subject to any exceptions and regulations
which may be thought advisable; that this appellate jurisdiction does, in no case, abolish the trial
by jury; and that an ordinary degree of prudence and integrity in the national councils will insure
us solid advantages from the establishment of the proposed judiciary, without exposing us to any
of the inconveniences which have been predicted from that source.




                                                                  366
 
                               



Federalist No. 82 - The Judiciary Continued
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, July 2, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE erection of a new government, whatever care or wisdom may distinguish the work, cannot
fail to originate questions of intricacy and nicety; and these may, in a particular manner, be
expected to flow from the establishment of a constitution founded upon the total or partial
incorporation of a number of distinct sovereignties. ‘Tis time only that can mature and perfect so
compound a system, can liquidate the meaning of all the parts, and can adjust them to each other
in a harmonious and consistent WHOLE.

Such questions, accordingly, have arisen upon the plan proposed by the convention, and
particularly concerning the judiciary department. The principal of these respect the situation of
the State courts in regard to those causes which are to be submitted to federal jurisdiction. Is this
to be exclusive, or are those courts to possess a concurrent jurisdiction? If the latter, in what
relation will they stand to the national tribunals? These are inquiries which we meet with in the
mouths of men of sense, and which are certainly entitled to attention.

The principles established in a former paper teach us that the States will retain all pre-existing
authorities which may not be exclusively delegated to the federal head; and that this exclusive
delegation can only exist in one of three cases: where an exclusive authority is, in express terms,
granted to the Union; or where a particular authority is granted to the Union, and the exercise of
a like authority is prohibited to the States; or where an authority is granted to the Union, with
which a similar authority in the States would be utterly incompatible. Though these principles
may not apply with the same force to the judiciary as to the legislative power, yet I am inclined
to think that they are, in the main, just with respect to the former, as well as the latter. And under
this impression, I shall lay it down as a rule, that the State courts will retain the jurisdiction they
now have, unless it appears to be taken away in one of the enumerated modes.

The only thing in the proposed Constitution, which wears the appearance of confining the causes
of federal cognizance to the federal courts, is contained in this passage: “THE JUDICIAL
POWER of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as
the Congress shall from time to time ordain and establish.” This might either be construed to
signify, that the supreme and subordinate courts of the Union should alone have the power of
deciding those causes to which their authority is to extend; or simply to denote, that the organs of
the national judiciary should be one Supreme Court, and as many subordinate courts as Congress
should think proper to appoint; or in other words, that the United States should exercise the
judicial power with which they are to be invested, through one supreme tribunal, and a certain
number of inferior ones, to be instituted by them. The first excludes, the last admits, the



                                                                    367
 
                               


concurrent jurisdiction of the State tribunals; and as the first would amount to an alienation of
State power by implication, the last appears to me the most natural and the most defensible
construction.

But this doctrine of concurrent jurisdiction is only clearly applicable to those descriptions of
causes of which the State courts have previous cognizance. It is not equally evident in relation to
cases which may grow out of, and be peculiar to, the Constitution to be established; for not to
allow the State courts a right of jurisdiction in such cases, can hardly be considered as the
abridgment of a pre-existing authority. I mean not therefore to contend that the United States, in
the course of legislation upon the objects intrusted to their direction, may not commit the
decision of causes arising upon a particular regulation to the federal courts solely, if such a
measure should be deemed expedient; but I hold that the State courts will be divested of no part
of their primitive jurisdiction, further than may relate to an appeal; and I am even of opinion that
in every case in which they were not expressly excluded by the future acts of the national
legislature, they will of course take cognizance of the causes to which those acts may give birth.
This I infer from the nature of judiciary power, and from the general genius of the system. The
judiciary power of every government looks beyond its own local or municipal laws, and in civil
cases lays hold of all subjects of litigation between parties within its jurisdiction, though the
causes of dispute are relative to the laws of the most distant part of the globe. Those of Japan, not
less than of New York, may furnish the objects of legal discussion to our courts. When in
addition to this we consider the State governments and the national governments, as they truly
are, in the light of kindred systems, and as parts of ONE WHOLE, the inference seems to be
conclusive, that the State courts would have a concurrent jurisdiction in all cases arising under
the laws of the Union, where it was not expressly prohibited.

Here another question occurs: What relation would subsist between the national and State courts
in these instances of concurrent jurisdiction? I answer, that an appeal would certainly lie from the
latter, to the Supreme Court of the United States. The Constitution in direct terms gives an
appellate jurisdiction to the Supreme Court in all the enumerated cases of federal cognizance in
which it is not to have an original one, without a single expression to confine its operation to the
inferior federal courts. The objects of appeal, not the tribunals from which it is to be made, are
alone contemplated. From this circumstance, and from the reason of the thing, it ought to be
construed to extend to the State tribunals. Either this must be the case, or the local courts must be
excluded from a concurrent jurisdiction in matters of national concern, else the judiciary
authority of the Union may be eluded at the pleasure of every plaintiff or prosecutor. Neither of
these consequences ought, without evident necessity, to be involved; the latter would be entirely
inadmissible, as it would defeat some of the most important and avowed purposes of the
proposed government, and would essentially embarrass its measures. Nor do I perceive any
foundation for such a supposition. Agreeably to the remark already made, the national and State
systems are to be regarded as ONE WHOLE. The courts of the latter will of course be natural
auxiliaries to the execution of the laws of the Union, and an appeal from them will as naturally
lie to that tribunal which is destined to unite and assimilate the principles of national justice and
the rules of national decisions. The evident aim of the plan of the convention is, that all the



                                                                 368
 
                               


causes of the specified classes shall, for weighty public reasons, receive their original or final
determination in the courts of the Union. To confine, therefore, the general expressions giving
appellate jurisdiction to the Supreme Court, to appeals from the subordinate federal courts,
instead of allowing their extension to the State courts, would be to abridge the latitude of the
terms, in subversion of the intent, contrary to every sound rule of interpretation.

But could an appeal be made to lie from the State courts to the subordinate federal judicatories?
This is another of the questions which have been raised, and of greater difficulty than the former.
The following considerations countenance the affirmative. The plan of the convention, in the
first place, authorizes the national legislature “to constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme
Court.” It declares, in the next place, that “the JUDICIAL POWER of the United States shall be
vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as Congress shall ordain and establish”;
and it then proceeds to enumerate the cases to which this judicial power shall extend. It
afterwards divides the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court into original and appellate, but gives no
definition of that of the subordinate courts. The only outlines described for them, are that they
shall be “inferior to the Supreme Court,” and that they shall not exceed the specified limits of the
federal judiciary. Whether their authority shall be original or appellate, or both, is not declared.
All this seems to be left to the discretion of the legislature. And this being the case, I perceive at
present no impediment to the establishment of an appeal from the State courts to the subordinate
national tribunals; and many advantages attending the power of doing it may be imagined. It
would diminish the motives to the multiplication of federal courts, and would admit of
arrangements calculated to contract the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. The State
tribunals may then be left with a more entire charge of federal causes; and appeals, in most cases
in which they may be deemed proper, instead of being carried to the Supreme Court, may be
made to lie from the State courts to district courts of the Union.




                                                                   369
 
                                



Federalist No. 83 - The Judiciary Continued in Relation to Trial by
Jury
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Saturday, July 5, Wednesday, July 9, Saturday July 12, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

THE objection to the plan of the convention, which has met with most success in this State, and
perhaps in several of the other States, is that relative to the want of a constitutional provision for
the trial by jury in civil cases. The disingenuous form in which this objection is usually stated has
been repeatedly adverted to and exposed, but continues to be pursued in all the conversations and
writings of the opponents of the plan. The mere silence of the Constitution in regard to civil
causes, is represented as an abolition of the trial by jury, and the declamations to which it has
afforded a pretext are artfully calculated to induce a persuasion that this pretended abolition is
complete and universal, extending not only to every species of civil, but even to criminal causes.
To argue with respect to the latter would, however, be as vain and fruitless as to attempt the
serious proof of the existence of matter, or to demonstrate any of those propositions which, by
their own internal evidence, force conviction, when expressed in language adapted to convey
their meaning.

With regard to civil causes, subtleties almost too contemptible for refutation have been employed
to countenance the surmise that a thing which is only not provided for, is entirely abolished.
Every man of discernment must at once perceive the wide difference between silence and
abolition. But as the inventors of this fallacy have attempted to support it by certain legal
maxims of interpretation, which they have perverted from their true meaning, it may not be
wholly useless to explore the ground they have taken.

The maxims on which they rely are of this nature: “A specification of particulars is an exclusion
of generals”; or, “The expression of one thing is the exclusion of another.” Hence, say they, as
the Constitution has established the trial by jury in criminal cases, and is silent in respect to civil,
this silence is an implied prohibition of trial by jury in regard to the latter.

The rules of legal interpretation are rules of common sense, adopted by the courts in the
construction of the laws. The true test, therefore, of a just application of them is its conformity to
the source from which they are derived. This being the case, let me ask if it is consistent with
common-sense to suppose that a provision obliging the legislative power to commit the trial of
criminal causes to juries, is a privation of its right to authorize or permit that mode of trial in
other cases? Is it natural to suppose, that a command to do one thing is a prohibition to the doing
of another, which there was a previous power to do, and which is not incompatible with the thing
commanded to be done? If such a supposition would be unnatural and unreasonable, it cannot be



                                                                    370
 
                                


rational to maintain that an injunction of the trial by jury in certain cases is an interdiction of it in
others.

A power to constitute courts is a power to prescribe the mode of trial; and consequently, if
nothing was said in the Constitution on the subject of juries, the legislature would be at liberty
either to adopt that institution or to let it alone. This discretion, in regard to criminal causes, is
abridged by the express injunction of trial by jury in all such cases; but it is, of course, left at
large in relation to civil causes, there being a total silence on this head. The specification of an
obligation to try all criminal causes in a particular mode, excludes indeed the obligation or
necessity of employing the same mode in civil causes, but does not abridge the power of the
legislature to exercise that mode if it should be thought proper. The pretense, therefore, that the
national legislature would not be at full liberty to submit all the civil causes of federal
cognizance to the determination of juries, is a pretense destitute of all just foundation.

From these observations this conclusion results: that the trial by jury in civil cases would not be
abolished; and that the use attempted to be made of the maxims which have been quoted, is
contrary to reason and common-sense, and therefore not admissible. Even if these maxims had a
precise technical sense, corresponding with the idea of those who employ them upon the present
occasion, which, however, is not the case, they would still be inapplicable to a constitution of
government. In relation to such a subject, the natural and obvious sense of its provisions, apart
from any technical rules, is the true criterion of construction.

Having now seen that the maxims relied upon will not bear the use made of them, let us
endeavor to ascertain their proper use and true meaning. This will be best done by examples. The
plan of the convention declares that the power of Congress, or, in other words, of the national
legislature, shall extend to certain enumerated cases. This specification of particulars evidently
excludes all pretension to a general legislative authority, because an affirmative grant of special
powers would be absurd, as well as useless, if a general authority was intended.

In like manner the judicial authority of the federal judicatures is declared by the Constitution to
comprehend certain cases particularly specified. The expression of those cases marks the precise
limits, beyond which the federal courts cannot extend their jurisdiction, because the objects of
their cognizance being enumerated, the specification would be nugatory if it did not exclude all
ideas of more extensive authority.

These examples are sufficient to elucidate the maxims which have been mentioned, and to
designate the manner in which they should be used. But that there may be no misapprehensions
upon this subject, I shall add one case more, to demonstrate the proper use of these maxims, and
the abuse which has been made of them.

Let us suppose that by the laws of this State a married woman was incapable of conveying her
estate, and that the legislature, considering this as an evil, should enact that she might dispose of
her property by deed executed in the presence of a magistrate. In such a case there can be no



                                                                     371
 
                                


doubt but the specification would amount to an exclusion of any other mode of conveyance,
because the woman having no previous power to alienate her property, the specification
determines the particular mode which she is, for that purpose, to avail herself of. But let us
further suppose that in a subsequent part of the same act it should be declared that no woman
should dispose of any estate of a determinate value without the consent of three of her nearest
relations, signified by their signing the deed; could it be inferred from this regulation that a
married woman might not procure the approbation of her relations to a deed for conveying
property of inferior value? The position is too absurd to merit a refutation, and yet this is
precisely the position which those must establish who contend that the trial by juries in civil
cases is abolished, because it is expressly provided for in cases of a criminal nature.

From these observations it must appear unquestionably true, that trial by jury is in no case
abolished by the proposed Constitution, and it is equally true, that in those controversies between
individuals in which the great body of the people are likely to be interested, that institution will
remain precisely in the same situation in which it is placed by the State constitutions, and will be
in no degree altered or influenced by the adoption of the plan under consideration. The
foundation of this assertion is, that the national judiciary will have no cognizance of them, and of
course they will remain determinable as heretofore by the State courts only, and in the manner
which the State constitutions and laws prescribe. All land causes, except where claims under the
grants of different States come into question, and all other controversies between the citizens of
the same State, unless where they depend upon positive violations of the articles of union, by
acts of the State legislatures, will belong exclusively to the jurisdiction of the State tribunals.
Add to this, that admiralty causes, and almost all those which are of equity jurisdiction, are
determinable under our own government without the intervention of a jury, and the inference
from the whole will be, that this institution, as it exists with us at present, cannot possibly be
affected to any great extent by the proposed alteration in our system of government.

The friends and adversaries of the plan of the convention, if they agree in nothing else, concur at
least in the value they set upon the trial by jury; or if there is any difference between them it
consists in this: the former regard it as a valuable safeguard to liberty; the latter represent it as the
very palladium of free government. For my own part, the more the operation of the institution
has fallen under my observation, the more reason I have discovered for holding it in high
estimation; and it would be altogether superfluous to examine to what extent it deserves to be
esteemed useful or essential in a representative republic, or how much more merit it may be
entitled to, as a defense against the oppressions of an hereditary monarch, than as a barrier to the
tyranny of popular magistrates in a popular government. Discussions of this kind would be more
curious than beneficial, as all are satisfied of the utility of the institution, and of its friendly
aspect to liberty. But I must acknowledge that I cannot readily discern the inseparable connection
between the existence of liberty, and the trial by jury in civil cases. Arbitrary impeachments,
arbitrary methods of prosecuting pretended offenses, and arbitrary punishments upon arbitrary
convictions, have ever appeared to me to be the great engines of judicial despotism; and these
have all relation to criminal proceedings. The trial by jury in criminal cases, aided by the habeas




                                                                     372
 
                               


corpus act, seems therefore to be alone concerned in the question. And both of these are provided
for, in the most ample manner, in the plan of the convention.

It has been observed, that trial by jury is a safeguard against an oppressive exercise of the power
of taxation. This observation deserves to be canvassed.

It is evident that it can have no influence upon the legislature, in regard to the amount of taxes to
be laid, to the objects upon which they are to be imposed, or to the rule by which they are to be
apportioned. If it can have any influence, therefore, it must be upon the mode of collection, and
the conduct of the officers intrusted with the execution of the revenue laws.

As to the mode of collection in this State, under our own Constitution, the trial by jury is in most
cases out of use. The taxes are usually levied by the more summary proceeding of distress and
sale, as in cases of rent. And it is acknowledged on all hands, that this is essential to the efficacy
of the revenue laws. The dilatory course of a trial at law to recover the taxes imposed on
individuals, would neither suit the exigencies of the public nor promote the convenience of the
citizens. It would often occasion an accumulation of costs, more burdensome than the original
sum of the tax to be levied.

And as to the conduct of the officers of the revenue, the provision in favor of trial by jury in
criminal cases, will afford the security aimed at. Wilful abuses of a public authority, to the
oppression of the subject, and every species of official extortion, are offenses against the
government, for which the persons who commit them may be indicted and punished according to
the circumstances of the case.

The excellence of the trial by jury in civil cases appears to depend on circumstances foreign to
the preservation of liberty. The strongest argument in its favor is, that it is a security against
corruption. As there is always more time and better opportunity to tamper with a standing body
of magistrates than with a jury summoned for the occasion, there is room to suppose that a
corrupt influence would more easily find its way to the former than to the latter. The force of this
consideration is, however, diminished by others. The sheriff, who is the summoner of ordinary
juries, and the clerks of courts, who have the nomination of special juries, are themselves
standing officers, and, acting individually, may be supposed more accessible to the touch of
corruption than the judges, who are a collective body. It is not difficult to see, that it would be in
the power of those officers to select jurors who would serve the purpose of the party as well as a
corrupted bench. In the next place, it may fairly be supposed, that there would be less difficulty
in gaining some of the jurors promiscuously taken from the public mass, than in gaining men
who had been chosen by the government for their probity and good character. But making every
deduction for these considerations, the trial by jury must still be a valuable check upon
corruption. It greatly multiplies the impediments to its success. As matters now stand, it would
be necessary to corrupt both court and jury; for where the jury have gone evidently wrong, the
court will generally grant a new trial, and it would be in most cases of little use to practice upon
the jury, unless the court could be likewise gained. Here then is a double security; and it will



                                                                   373
 
                               


readily be perceived that this complicated agency tends to preserve the purity of both institutions.
By increasing the obstacles to success, it discourages attempts to seduce the integrity of either.
The temptations to prostitution which the judges might have to surmount, must certainly be
much fewer, while the co-operation of a jury is necessary, than they might be, if they had
themselves the exclusive determination of all causes.

Notwithstanding, therefore, the doubts I have expressed, as to the essentiality of trial by jury in
civil cases to liberty, I admit that it is in most cases, under proper regulations, an excellent
method of determining questions of property; and that on this account alone it would be entitled
to a constitutional provision in its favor if it were possible to fix the limits within which it ought
to be comprehended. There is, however, in all cases, great difficulty in this; and men not blinded
by enthusiasm must be sensible that in a federal government, which is a composition of societies
whose ideas and institutions in relation to the matter materially vary from each other, that
difficulty must be not a little augmented. For my own part, at every new view I take of the
subject, I become more convinced of the reality of the obstacles which, we are authoritatively
informed, prevented the insertion of a provision on this head in the plan of the convention.

The great difference between the limits of the jury trial in different States is not generally
understood; and as it must have considerable influence on the sentence we ought to pass upon the
omission complained of in regard to this point, an explanation of it is necessary. In this State, our
judicial establishments resemble, more nearly than in any other, those of Great Britain. We have
courts of common law, courts of probates (analogous in certain matters to the spiritual courts in
England), a court of admiralty and a court of chancery. In the courts of common law only, the
trial by jury prevails, and this with some exceptions. In all the others a single judge presides, and
proceeds in general either according to the course of the canon or civil law, without the aid of a
jury.1 In New Jersey, there is a court of chancery which proceeds like ours, but neither courts of
admiralty nor of probates, in the sense in which these last are established with us. In that State
the courts of common law have the cognizance of those causes which with us are determinable in
the courts of admiralty and of probates, and of course the jury trial is more extensive in New
Jersey than in New York. In Pennsylvania, this is perhaps still more the case, for there is no court
of chancery in that State, and its common-law courts have equity jurisdiction. It has a court of
admiralty, but none of probates, at least on the plan of ours. Delaware has in these respects
imitated Pennsylvania. Maryland approaches more nearly to New York, as does also Virginia,
except that the latter has a plurality of chancellors. North Carolina bears most affinity to
Pennsylvania; South Carolina to Virginia. I believe, however, that in some of those States which
have distinct courts of admiralty, the causes depending in them are triable by juries. In Georgia
there are none but common-law courts, and an appeal of course lies from the verdict of one jury
to another, which is called a special jury, and for which a particular mode of appointment is
marked out. In Connecticut, they have no distinct courts either of chancery or of admiralty, and
their courts of probates have no jurisdiction of causes. Their common-law courts have admiralty
and, to a certain extent, equity jurisdiction. In cases of importance, their General Assembly is the
only court of chancery. In Connecticut, therefore, the trial by jury extends in practice further than
in any other State yet mentioned. Rhode Island is, I believe, in this particular, pretty much in the



                                                                   374
 
                               


situation of Connecticut. Massachusetts and New Hampshire, in regard to the blending of law,
equity, and admiralty jurisdictions, are in a similar predicament. In the four Eastern States, the
trial by jury not only stands upon a broader foundation than in the other States, but it is attended
with a peculiarity unknown, in its full extent, to any of them. There is an appeal of course from
one jury to another, till there have been two verdicts out of three on one side.

From this sketch it appears that there is a material diversity, as well in the modification as in the
extent of the institution of trial by jury in civil cases, in the several States; and from this fact
these obvious reflections flow: first, that no general rule could have been fixed upon by the
convention which would have corresponded with the circumstances of all the States; and
secondly, that more or at least as much might have been hazarded by taking the system of any
one State for a standard, as by omitting a provision altogether and leaving the matter, as has been
done, to legislative regulation.

The propositions which have been made for supplying the omission have rather served to
illustrate than to obviate the difficulty of the thing. The minority of Pennsylvania have proposed
this mode of expression for the purpose — “Trial by jury shall be as heretofore” — and this I
maintain would be senseless and nugatory. The United States, in their united or collective
capacity, are the OBJECT to which all general provisions in the Constitution must necessarily be
construed to refer. Now it is evident that though trial by jury, with various limitations, is known
in each State individually, yet in the United States, as such, it is at this time altogether unknown,
because the present federal government has no judiciary power whatever; and consequently there
is no proper antecedent or previous establishment to which the term heretofore could relate. It
would therefore be destitute of a precise meaning, and inoperative from its uncertainty.

As, on the one hand, the form of the provision would not fulfil the intent of its proposers, so, on
the other, if I apprehend that intent rightly, it would be in itself inexpedient. I presume it to be,
that causes in the federal courts should be tried by jury, if, in the State where the courts sat, that
mode of trial would obtain in a similar case in the State courts; that is to say, admiralty causes
should be tried in Connecticut by a jury, in New York without one. The capricious operation of
so dissimilar a method of trial in the same cases, under the same government, is of itself
sufficient to indispose every wellregulated judgment towards it. Whether the cause should be
tried with or without a jury, would depend, in a great number of cases, on the accidental situation
of the court and parties.

But this is not, in my estimation, the greatest objection. I feel a deep and deliberate conviction
that there are many cases in which the trial by jury is an ineligible one. I think it so particularly
in cases which concern the public peace with foreign nations — that is, in most cases where the
question turns wholly on the laws of nations. Of this nature, among others, are all prize causes.
Juries cannot be supposed competent to investigations that require a thorough knowledge of the
laws and usages of nations; and they will sometimes be under the influence of impressions which
will not suffer them to pay sufficient regard to those considerations of public policy which ought
to guide their inquiries. There would of course be always danger that the rights of other nations



                                                                  375
 
                                


might be infringed by their decisions, so as to afford occasions of reprisal and war. Though the
proper province of juries be to determine matters of fact, yet in most cases legal consequences
are complicated with fact in such a manner as to render a separation impracticable.

It will add great weight to this remark, in relation to prize causes, to mention that the method of
determining them has been thought worthy of particular regulation in various treaties between
different powers of Europe, and that, pursuant to such treaties, they are determinable in Great
Britain, in the last resort, before the king himself, in his privy council, where the fact, as well as
the law, undergoes a re-examination. This alone demonstrates the impolicy of inserting a
fundamental provision in the Constitution which would make the State systems a standard for the
national government in the article under consideration, and the danger of encumbering the
government with any constitutional provisions the propriety of which is not indisputable.

My convictions are equally strong that great advantages result from the separation of the equity
from the law jurisdiction, and that the causes which belong to the former would be improperly
committed to juries. The great and primary use of a court of equity is to give relief in
extraordinary cases, which are exceptions2 to general rules. To unite the jurisdiction of such
cases with the ordinary jurisdiction, must have a tendency to unsettle the general rules, and to
subject every case that arises to a special determination; while a separation of the one from the
other has the contrary effect of rendering one a sentinel over the other, and of keeping each
within the expedient limits. Besides this, the circumstances that constitute cases proper for courts
of equity are in many instances so nice and intricate, that they are incompatible with the genius
of trials by jury. They require often such long, deliberate, and critical investigation as would be
impracticable to men called from their occupations, and obliged to decide before they were
permitted to return to them. The simplicity and expedition which form the distinguishing
characters of this mode of trial require that the matter to be decided should be reduced to some
single and obvious point; while the litigations usual in chancery frequently comprehend a long
train of minute and independent particulars.

It is true that the separation of the equity from the legal jurisdiction is peculiar to the English
system of jurisprudence: which is the model that has been followed in several of the States. But it
is equally true that the trial by jury has been unknown in every case in which they have been
united. And the separation is essential to the preservation of that institution in its pristine purity.
The nature of a court of equity will readily permit the extension of its jurisdiction to matters of
law; but it is not a little to be suspected, that the attempt to extend the jurisdiction of the courts of
law to matters of equity will not only be unproductive of the advantages which may be derived
from courts of chancery, on the plan upon which they are established in this State, but will tend
gradually to change the nature of the courts of law, and to undermine the trial by jury, by
introducing questions too complicated for a decision in that mode.

These appeared to be conclusive reasons against incorporating the systems of all the States, in
the formation of the national judiciary, according to what may be conjectured to have been the




                                                                     376
 
                                


attempt of the Pennsylvania minority. Let us now examine how far the proposition of
Massachusetts is calculated to remedy the supposed defect.

It is in this form: “In civil actions between citizens of different States, every issue of fact, arising
in actions at common law, may be tried by a jury if the parties, or either of them request it.”

This, at best, is a proposition confined to one description of causes; and the inference is fair,
either that the Massachusetts convention considered that as the only class of federal causes, in
which the trial by jury would be proper; or that if desirous of a more extensive provision, they
found it impracticable to devise one which would properly answer the end. If the first, the
omission of a regulation respecting so partial an object can never be considered as a material
imperfection in the system. If the last, it affords a strong corroboration of the extreme difficulty
of the thing.

But this is not all: if we advert to the observations already made respecting the courts that subsist
in the several States of the Union, and the different powers exercised by them, it will appear that
there are no expressions more vague and indeterminate than those which have been employed to
characterize that species of causes which it is intended shall be entitled to a trial by jury. In this
State, the boundaries between actions at common law and actions of equitable jurisdiction, are
ascertained in conformity to the rules which prevail in England upon that subject. In many of the
other States the boundaries are less precise. In some of them every cause is to be tried in a court
of common law, and upon that foundation every action may be considered as an action at
common law, to be determined by a jury, if the parties, or either of them, choose it. Hence the
same irregularity and confusion would be introduced by a compliance with this proposition, that
I have already noticed as resulting from the regulation proposed by the Pennsylvania minority. In
one State a cause would receive its determination from a jury, if the parties, or either of them,
requested it; but in another State, a cause exactly similar to the other, must be decided without
the intervention of a jury, because the State judicatories varied as to common-law jurisdiction.

It is obvious, therefore, that the Massachusetts proposition, upon this subject cannot operate as a
general regulation, until some uniform plan, with respect to the limits of common-law and
equitable jurisdictions, shall be adopted by the different States. To devise a plan of that kind is a
task arduous in itself, and which it would require much time and reflection to mature. It would be
extremely difficult, if not impossible, to suggest any general regulation that would be acceptable
to all the States in the Union, or that would perfectly quadrate with the several State institutions.

It may be asked, Why could not a reference have been made to the constitution of this State,
taking that, which is allowed by me to be a good one, as a standard for the United States? I
answer that it is not very probable the other States would entertain the same opinion of our
institutions as we do ourselves. It is natural to suppose that they are hitherto more attached to
their own, and that each would struggle for the preference. If the plan of taking one State as a
model for the whole had been thought of in the convention, it is to be presumed that the adoption
of it in that body would have been rendered difficult by the predilection of each representation in



                                                                     377
 
                               


favor of its own government; and it must be uncertain which of the States would have been taken
as the model. It has been shown that many of them would be improper ones. And I leave it to
conjecture, whether, under all circumstances, it is most likely that New York, or some other
State, would have been preferred. But admit that a judicious selection could have been effected
in the convention, still there would have been great danger of jealousy and disgust in the other
States, at the partiality which had been shown to the institutions of one. The enemies of the plan
would have been furnished with a fine pretext for raising a host of local prejudices against it,
which perhaps might have hazarded, in no inconsiderable degree, its final establishment.

To avoid the embarrassments of a definition of the cases which the trial by jury ought to
embrace, it is sometimes suggested by men of enthusiastic tempers, that a provision might have
been inserted for establishing it in all cases whatsoever. For this I believe, no precedent is to be
found in any member of the Union; and the considerations which have been stated in discussing
the proposition of the minority of Pennsylvania, must satisfy every sober mind that the
establishment of the trial by jury in all cases would have been an unpardonable error in the plan.

In short, the more it is considered the more arduous will appear the task of fashioning a provision
in such a form as not to express too little to answer the purpose, or too much to be advisable; or
which might not have opened other sources of opposition to the great and essential object of
introducing a firm national government.

I cannot but persuade myself, on the other hand, that the different lights in which the subject has
been placed in the course of these observations, will go far towards removing in candid minds
the apprehensions they may have entertained on the point. They have tended to show that the
security of liberty is materially concerned only in the trial by jury in criminal cases, which is
provided for in the most ample manner in the plan of the convention; that even in far the greatest
proportion of civil cases, and those in which the great body of the community is interested, that
mode of trial will remain in its full force, as established in the State constitutions, untouched and
unaffected by the plan of the convention; that it is in no case abolished by that plan; and that
there are great if not insurmountable difficulties in the way of making any precise and proper
provision for it in a Constitution for the United States.

The best judges of the matter will be the least anxious for a constitutional establishment of the
trial by jury in civil cases, and will be the most ready to admit that the changes which are
continually happening in the affairs of society may render a different mode of determining
questions of property preferable in many cases in which that mode of trial now prevails. For my
part, I acknowledge myself to be convinced that even in this State it might be advantageously
extended to some cases to which it does not at present apply, and might as advantageously be
abridged in others. It is conceded by all reasonable men that it ought not to obtain in all cases.
The examples of innovations which contract its ancient limits, as well in these States as in Great
Britain, afford a strong presumption that its former extent has been found inconvenient, and give
room to suppose that future experience may discover the propriety and utility of other
exceptions. I suspect it to be impossible in the nature of the thing to fix the salutary point at



                                                                  378
 
                               


which the operation of the institution ought to stop, and this is with me a strong argument for
leaving the matter to the discretion of the legislature.

This is now clearly understood to be the case in Great Britain, and it is equally so in the State of
Connecticut; and yet it may be safely affirmed that more numerous encroachments have been
made upon the trial by jury in this State since the Revolution, though provided for by a positive
article of our constitution, than has happened in the same time either in Connecticut or Great
Britain. It may be added that these encroachments have generally originated with the men who
endeavor to persuade the people they are the warmest defenders of popular liberty, but who have
rarely suffered constitutional obstacles to arrest them in a favorite career. The truth is that the
general GENIUS of a government is all that can be substantially relied upon for permanent
effects. Particular provisions, though not altogether useless, have far less virtue and efficacy than
are commonly ascribed to them; and the want of them will never be, with men of sound
discernment, a decisive objection to any plan which exhibits the leading characters of a good
government.

It certainly sounds not a little harsh and extraordinary to affirm that there is no security for
liberty in a Constitution which expressly establishes the trial by jury in criminal cases, because it
does not do it in civil also; while it is a notorious fact that Connecticut, which has been always
regarded as the most popular State in the Union, can boast of no constitutional provision for
either.




                                                                  379
 
                               



Federalist No. 84 - Certain General and Miscellaneous Objections to
the Constitution Considered and Answered
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, July 16, Saturday, July 26, Saturday, August 9, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

IN THE course of the foregoing review of the Constitution, I have taken notice of, and
endeavored to answer most of the objections which have appeared against it. There, however,
remain a few which either did not fall naturally under any particular head or were forgotten in
their proper places. These shall now be discussed; but as the subject has been drawn into great
length, I shall so far consult brevity as to comprise all my observations on these miscellaneous
points in a single paper.

The most considerable of the remaining objections is that the plan of the convention contains no
bill of rights. Among other answers given to this, it has been upon different occasions remarked
that the constitutions of several of the States are in a similar predicament. I add that New York is
of the number. And yet the opposers of the new system, in this State, who profess an unlimited
admiration for its constitution, are among the most intemperate partisans of a bill of rights. To
justify their zeal in this matter, they allege two things: one is that, though the constitution of New
York has no bill of rights prefixed to it, yet it contains, in the body of it, various provisions in
favor of particular privileges and rights, which, in substance amount to the same thing; the other
is, that the Constitution adopts, in their full extent, the common and statute law of Great Britain,
by which many other rights, not expressed in it, are equally secured.

To the first I answer, that the Constitution proposed by the convention contains, as well as the
constitution of this State, a number of such provisions.

Independent of those which relate to the structure of the government, we find the following:
Article 1, section 3, clause 7 — “Judgment in cases of impeachment shall not extend further than
to removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit
under the United States; but the party convicted shall, nevertheless, be liable and subject to
indictment, trial, judgment, and punishment according to law.” Section 9, of the same article,
clause 2 — “The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in
cases of rebellion or invasion the public safety may require it.” Clause 3 — “No bill of attainder
or ex-post-facto law shall be passed.” Clause 7 — “No title of nobility shall be granted by the
United States; and no person holding any office of profit or trust under them, shall, without the
consent of the Congress, accept of any present, emolument, office, or title of any kind whatever,
from any king, prince, or foreign state.” Article 3, section 2, clause 3 — “The trial of all crimes,
except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury; and such trial shall be held in the State where
the said crimes shall have been committed; but when not committed within any State, the trial


                                                                  380
 
                              


shall be at such place or places as the Congress may by law have directed.” Section 3, of the
same article — “Treason against the United States shall consist only in levying war against them,
or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort. No person shall be convicted of
treason, unless on the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or on confession in open
court.” And clause 3, of the same section — “The Congress shall have power to declare the
punishment of treason; but no attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood, or forfeiture,
except during the life of the person attainted.”

It may well be a question, whether these are not, upon the whole, of equal importance with any
which are to be found in the constitution of this State. The establishment of the writ of habeas
corpus, the prohibition of ex post facto laws, and of TITLES OF NOBILITY, to which we have
no corresponding provision in our Constitution, are perhaps greater securities to liberty and
republicanism than any it contains. The creation of crimes after the commission of the fact, or, in
other words, the subjecting of men to punishment for things which, when they were done, were
breaches of no law, and the practice of arbitrary imprisonments, have been, in all ages, the
favorite and most formidable instruments of tyranny. The observations of the judicious
Blackstone, in reference to the latter, are well worthy of recital: “To bereave a man of life, [says
he] or by violence to confiscate his estate, without accusation or trial, would be so gross and
notorious an act of despotism, as must at once convey the alarm of tyranny throughout the whole
nation; but confinement of the person, by secretly hurrying him to jail, where his sufferings are
unknown or forgotten, is a less public, a less striking, and therefore a more dangerous engine of
arbitrary government.” And as a remedy for this fatal evil he is everywhere peculiarly emphatical
in his encomiums on the habeas corpus act, which in one place he calls “the BULWARK of the
British Constitution.”

Nothing need be said to illustrate the importance of the prohibition of titles of nobility. This may
truly be denominated the corner-stone of republican government; for so long as they are
excluded, there can never be serious danger that the government will be any other than that of the
people.

To the second that is, to the pretended establishment of the common and state law by the
Constitution, I answer, that they are expressly made subject “to such alterations and provisions as
the legislature shall from time to time make concerning the same.” They are therefore at any
moment liable to repeal by the ordinary legislative power, and of course have no constitutional
sanction. The only use of the declaration was to recognize the ancient law and to remove doubts
which might have been occasioned by the Revolution. This consequently can be considered as no
part of a declaration of rights, which under our constitutions must be intended as limitations of
the power of the government itself.

It has been several times truly remarked that bills of rights are, in their origin, stipulations
between kings and their subjects, abridgements of prerogative in favor of privilege, reservations
of rights not surrendered to the prince. Such was MAGNA CHARTA, obtained by the barons,
sword in hand, from King John. Such were the subsequent confirmations of that charter by



                                                                381
 
                               


succeeding princes. Such was the Petition of Right assented to by Charles I., in the beginning of
his reign. Such, also, was the Declaration of Right presented by the Lords and Commons to the
Prince of Orange in 1688, and afterwards thrown into the form of an act of parliament called the
Bill of Rights. It is evident, therefore, that, according to their primitive signification, they have
no application to constitutions professedly founded upon the power of the people, and executed
by their immediate representatives and servants. Here, in strictness, the people surrender nothing;
and as they retain every thing they have no need of particular reservations. “WE, THE PEOPLE
of the United States, to secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain
and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.” Here is a better recognition of
popular rights, than volumes of those aphorisms which make the principal figure in several of
our State bills of rights, and which would sound much better in a treatise of ethics than in a
constitution of government.

But a minute detail of particular rights is certainly far less applicable to a Constitution like that
under consideration, which is merely intended to regulate the general political interests of the
nation, than to a constitution which has the regulation of every species of personal and private
concerns. If, therefore, the loud clamors against the plan of the convention, on this score, are
well founded, no epithets of reprobation will be too strong for the constitution of this State. But
the truth is, that both of them contain all which, in relation to their objects, is reasonably to be
desired.

I go further, and affirm that bills of rights, in the sense and to the extent in which they are
contended for, are not only unnecessary in the proposed Constitution, but would even be
dangerous. They would contain various exceptions to powers not granted; and, on this very
account, would afford a colorable pretext to claim more than were granted. For why declare that
things shall not be done which there is no power to do? Why, for instance, should it be said that
the liberty of the press shall not be restrained, when no power is given by which restrictions may
be imposed? I will not contend that such a provision would confer a regulating power; but it is
evident that it would furnish, to men disposed to usurp, a plausible pretense for claiming that
power. They might urge with a semblance of reason, that the Constitution ought not to be
charged with the absurdity of providing against the abuse of an authority which was not given,
and that the provision against restraining the liberty of the press afforded a clear implication, that
a power to prescribe proper regulations concerning it was intended to be vested in the national
government. This may serve as a specimen of the numerous handles which would be given to the
doctrine of constructive powers, by the indulgence of an injudicious zeal for bills of rights.

On the subject of the liberty of the press, as much as has been said, I cannot forbear adding a
remark or two: in the first place, I observe, that there is not a syllable concerning it in the
constitution of this State; in the next, I contend, that whatever has been said about it in that of
any other State, amounts to nothing. What signifies a declaration, that “the liberty of the press
shall be inviolably preserved”? What is the liberty of the press? Who can give it any definition
which would not leave the utmost latitude for evasion? I hold it to be impracticable; and from
this I infer, that its security, whatever fine declarations may be inserted in any constitution



                                                                   382
 
                               


respecting it, must altogether depend on public opinion, and on the general spirit of the people
and of the government. And here, after all, as is intimated upon another occasion, must we seek
for the only solid basis of all our rights.

There remains but one other view of this matter to conclude the point. The truth is, after all the
declamations we have heard, that the Constitution is itself, in every rational sense, and to every
useful purpose, A BILL OF RIGHTS. The several bills of rights in Great Britain form its
Constitution, and conversely the constitution of each State is its bill of rights. And the proposed
Constitution, if adopted, will be the bill of rights of the Union. Is it one object of a bill of rights
to declare and specify the political privileges of the citizens in the structure and administration of
the government? This is done in the most ample and precise manner in the plan of the
convention; comprehending various precautions for the public security, which are not to be
found in any of the State constitutions. Is another object of a bill of rights to define certain
immunities and modes of proceeding, which are relative to personal and private concerns? This
we have seen has also been attended to, in a variety of cases, in the same plan. Adverting
therefore to the substantial meaning of a bill of rights, it is absurd to allege that it is not to be
found in the work of the convention. It may be said that it does not go far enough, though it will
not be easy to make this appear; but it can with no propriety be contended that there is no such
thing. It certainly must be immaterial what mode is observed as to the order of declaring the
rights of the citizens, if they are to be found in any part of the instrument which establishes the
government. And hence it must be apparent, that much of what has been said on this subject rests
merely on verbal and nominal distinctions, entirely foreign from the substance of the thing.

Another objection which has been made, and which, from the frequency of its repetition, it is to
be presumed is relied on, is of this nature: “It is improper [say the objectors] to confer such large
powers, as are proposed, upon the national government, because the seat of that government
must of necessity be too remote from many of the States to admit of a proper knowledge on the
part of the constituent, of the conduct of the representative body.” This argument, if it proves any
thing, proves that there ought to be no general government whatever. For the powers which, it
seems to be agreed on all hands, ought to be vested in the Union, cannot be safely intrusted to a
body which is not under every requisite control. But there are satisfactory reasons to show that
the objection is in reality not well founded. There is in most of the arguments which relate to
distance a palpable illusion of the imagination. What are the sources of information by which the
people in Montgomery County must regulate their judgment of the conduct of their
representatives in the State legislature? Of personal observation they can have no benefit. This is
confined to the citizens on the spot. They must therefore depend on the information of intelligent
men, in whom they confide; and how must these men obtain their information? Evidently from
the complexion of public measures, from the public prints, from correspondences with their
representatives, and with other persons who reside at the place of their deliberations. This does
not apply to Montgomery County only, but to all the counties at any considerable distance from
the seat of government.




                                                                   383
 
                               


It is equally evident that the same sources of information would be open to the people in relation
to the conduct of their representatives in the general government, and the impediments to a
prompt communication which distance may be supposed to create, will be overbalanced by the
effects of the vigilance of the State governments. The executive and legislative bodies of each
State will be so many sentinels over the persons employed in every department of the national
administration; and as it will be in their power to adopt and pursue a regular and effectual system
of intelligence, they can never be at a loss to know the behavior of those who represent their
constituents in the national councils, and can readily communicate the same knowledge to the
people. Their disposition to apprise the community of whatever may prejudice its interests from
another quarter, may be relied upon, if it were only from the rivalship of power. And we may
conclude with the fullest assurance that the people, through that channel, will be better informed
of the conduct of their national representatives, than they can be by any means they now possess
of that of their State representatives.

It ought also to be remembered that the citizens who inhabit the country at and near the seat of
government will, in all questions that affect the general liberty and prosperity, have the same
interest with those who are at a distance, and that they will stand ready to sound the alarm when
necessary, and to point out the actors in any pernicious project. The public papers will be
expeditious messengers of intelligence to the most remote inhabitants of the Union.

Among the many curious objections which have appeared against the proposed Constitution, the
most extraordinary and the least colorable is derived from the want of some provision respecting
the debts due to the United States. This has been represented as a tacit relinquishment of those
debts, and as a wicked contrivance to screen public defaulters. The newspapers have teemed with
the most inflammatory railings on this head; yet there is nothing clearer than that the suggestion
is entirely void of foundation, the offspring of extreme ignorance or extreme dishonesty. In
addition to the remarks I have made upon the subject in another place, I shall only observe that
as it is a plain dictate of common-sense, so it is also an established doctrine of political law, that
“States neither lose any of their rights, nor are discharged from any of their obligations, by a
change in the form of their civil government.”4

The last objection of any consequence, which I at present recollect, turns upon the article of
expense. If it were even true, that the adoption of the proposed government would occasion a
considerable increase of expense, it would be an objection that ought to have no weight against
the plan.

The great bulk of the citizens of America are with reason convinced, that Union is the basis of
their political happiness. Men of sense of all parties now, with few exceptions, agree that it
cannot be preserved under the present system, nor without radical alterations; that new and
extensive powers ought to be granted to the national head, and that these require a different
organization of the federal government — a single body being an unsafe depositary of such
ample authorities. In conceding all this, the question of expense must be given up; for it is
impossible, with any degree of safety, to narrow the foundation upon which the system is to



                                                                  384
 
                               


stand. The two branches of the legislature are, in the first instance, to consist of only sixty-five
persons, which is the same number of which Congress, under the existing Confederation, may be
composed. It is true that this number is intended to be increased; but this is to keep pace with the
progress of the population and resources of the country. It is evident that a less number would,
even in the first instance, have been unsafe, and that a continuance of the present number would,
in a more advanced stage of population, be a very inadequate representation of the people.

Whence is the dreaded augmentation of expense to spring? One source indicated, is the
multiplication of offices under the new government. Let us examine this a little.

It is evident that the principal departments of the administration under the present government,
are the same which will be required under the new. There are now a Secretary of War, a
Secretary of Foreign Affairs, a Secretary for Domestic Affairs, a Board of Treasury, consisting
of three persons, a Treasurer, assistants, clerks, etc. These officers are indispensable under any
system, and will suffice under the new as well as the old. As to ambassadors and other ministers
and agents in foreign countries, the proposed Constitution can make no other difference than to
render their characters, where they reside, more respectable, and their services more useful. As to
persons to be employed in the collection of the revenues, it is unquestionably true that these will
form a very considerable addition to the number of federal officers; but it will not follow that this
will occasion an increase of public expense. It will be in most cases nothing more than an
exchange of State for national officers. In the collection of all duties, for instance, the persons
employed will be wholly of the latter description. The States individually will stand in no need of
any for this purpose. What difference can it make in point of expense to pay officers of the
customs appointed by the State or by the United States? There is no good reason to suppose that
either the number or the salaries of the latter will be greater than those of the former.

Where then are we to seek for those additional articles of expense which are to swell the account
to the enormous size that has been represented to us? The chief item which occurs to me respects
the support of the judges of the United States. I do not add the President, because there is now a
president of Congress, whose expenses may not be far, if any thing, short of those which will be
incurred on account of the President of the United States. The support of the judges will clearly
be an extra expense, but to what extent will depend on the particular plan which may be adopted
in regard to this matter. But upon no reasonable plan can it amount to a sum which will be an
object of material consequence.

Let us now see what there is to counterbalance any extra expense that may attend the
establishment of the proposed government. The first thing which presents itself is that a great
part of the business which now keeps Congress sitting through the year will be transacted by the
President. Even the management of foreign negotiations will naturally devolve upon him,
according to general principles concerted with the Senate, and subject to their final concurrence.
Hence it is evident that a portion of the year will suffice for the session of both the Senate and
the House of Representatives; we may suppose about a fourth for the latter and a third, or
perhaps half, for the former. The extra business of treaties and appointments may give this extra



                                                                 385
 
                              


occupation to the Senate. From this circumstance we may infer that, until the House of
Representatives shall be increased greatly beyond its present number, there will be a
considerable saving of expense from the difference between the constant session of the present
and the temporary session of the future Congress.

But there is another circumstance of great importance in the view of economy. The business of
the United States has hitherto occupied the State legislatures, as well as Congress. The latter has
made requisitions which the former have had to provide for. Hence it has happened that the
sessions of the State legislatures have been protracted greatly beyond what was necessary for the
execution of the mere local business of the States. More than half their time has been frequently
employed in matters which related to the United States. Now the members who compose the
legislatures of the several States amount to two thousand and upwards, which number has
hitherto performed what under the new system will be done in the first instance by sixty-five
persons, and probably at no future period by above a fourth or fifth of that number. The Congress
under the proposed government will do all the business of the United States themselves, without
the intervention of the State legislatures, who thenceforth will have only to attend to the affairs
of their particular States, and will not have to sit in any proportion as long as they have
heretofore done. This difference in the time of the sessions of the State legislatures will be clear
gain, and will alone form an article of saving, which may be regarded as an equivalent for any
additional objects of expense that may be occasioned by the adoption of the new system.

The result from these observations is that the sources of additional expense from the
establishment of the proposed Constitution are much fewer than may have been imagined; that
they are counterbalanced by considerable objects of saving; and that while it is questionable on
which side the scale will preponderate, it is certain that a government less expensive would be
incompetent to the purposes of the Union.




                                                                386
 
                              



Federalist No. 85 - Concluding Remarks
Written by Alexander Hamilton
Independent Journal, Wednesday, August 13, Saturday, August 16, 1788

To the People of the State of New York:

ACCORDING to the formal division of the subject of these papers, announced in my first
number, there would appear still to remain for discussion two points: “the analogy of the
proposed government to your own State constitution,” and “the additional security which its
adoption will afford to republican government, to liberty, and to property.” But these heads have
been so fully anticipated and exhausted in the progress of the work, that it would now scarcely be
possible to do any thing more than repeat, in a more dilated form, what has been heretofore said,
which the advanced stage of the question, and the time already spent upon it, conspire to forbid.

It is remarkable, that the resemblance of the plan of the convention to the act which organizes the
government of this State holds, not less with regard to many of the supposed defects, than to the
real excellences of the former. Among the pretended defects are the re-eligibility of the
Executive, the want of a council, the omission of a formal bill of rights, the omission of a
provision respecting the liberty of the press. These and several others which have been noted in
the course of our inquiries are as much chargeable on the existing constitution of this State, as on
the one proposed for the Union; and a man must have slender pretensions to consistency, who
can rail at the latter for imperfections which he finds no difficulty in excusing in the former. Nor
indeed can there be a better proof of the insincerity and affectation of some of the zealous
adversaries of the plan of the convention among us, who profess to be the devoted admirers of
the government under which they live, than the fury with which they have attacked that plan, for
matters in regard to which our own constitution is equally or perhaps more vulnerable.

The additional securities to republican government, to liberty and to property, to be derived from
the adoption of the plan under consideration, consist chiefly in the restraints which the
preservation of the Union will impose on local factions and insurrections, and on the ambition of
powerful individuals in single States, who may acquire credit and influence enough, from leaders
and favorites, to become the despots of the people; in the diminution of the opportunities to
foreign intrigue, which the dissolution of the Confederacy would invite and facilitate; in the
prevention of extensive military establishments, which could not fail to grow out of wars
between the States in a disunited situation; in the express guaranty of a republican form of
government to each; in the absolute and universal exclusion of titles of nobility; and in the
precautions against the repetition of those practices on the part of the State governments which
have undermined the foundations of property and credit, have planted mutual distrust in the
breasts of all classes of citizens, and have occasioned an almost universal prostration of morals.




                                                                 387
 
                               


Thus have I, fellow-citizens, executed the task I had assigned to myself; with what success, your
conduct must determine. I trust at least you will admit that I have not failed in the assurance I
gave you respecting the spirit with which my endeavors should be conducted. I have addressed
myself purely to your judgments, and have studiously avoided those asperities which are too apt
to disgrace political disputants of all parties, and which have been not a little provoked by the
language and conduct of the opponents of the Constitution. The charge of a conspiracy against
the liberties of the people, which has been indiscriminately brought against the advocates of the
plan, has something in it too wanton and too malignant, not to excite the indignation of every
man who feels in his own bosom a refutation of the calumny. The perpetual changes which have
been rung upon the wealthy, the well-born, and the great, have been such as to inspire the disgust
of all sensible men. And the unwarrantable concealments and misrepresentations which have
been in various ways practiced to keep the truth from the public eye, have been of a nature to
demand the reprobation of all honest men. It is not impossible that these circumstances may have
occasionally betrayed me into intemperances of expression which I did not intend; it is certain
that I have frequently felt a struggle between sensibility and moderation; and if the former has in
some instances prevailed, it must be my excuse that it has been neither often nor much.

Let us now pause and ask ourselves whether, in the course of these papers, the proposed
Constitution has not been satisfactorily vindicated from the aspersions thrown upon it; and
whether it has not been shown to be worthy of the public approbation, and necessary to the
public safety and prosperity. Every man is bound to answer these questions to himself, according
to the best of his conscience and understanding, and to act agreeably to the genuine and sober
dictates of his judgment. This is a duty from which nothing can give him a dispensation. ‘T is
one that he is called upon, nay, constrained by all the obligations that form the bands of society,
to discharge sincerely and honestly. No partial motive, no particular interest, no pride of opinion,
no temporary passion or prejudice, will justify to himself, to his country, or to his posterity, an
improper election of the part he is to act. Let him beware of an obstinate adherence to party; let
him reflect that the object upon which he is to decide is not a particular interest of the
community, but the very existence of the nation; and let him remember that a majority of
America has already given its sanction to the plan which he is to approve or reject.

I shall not dissemble that I feel an entire confidence in the arguments which recommend the
proposed system to your adoption, and that I am unable to discern any real force in those by
which it has been opposed. I am persuaded that it is the best which our political situation, habits,
and opinions will admit, and superior to any the revolution has produced.

Concessions on the part of the friends of the plan, that it has not a claim to absolute perfection,
have afforded matter of no small triumph to its enemies. “Why,” say they, “should we adopt an
imperfect thing? Why not amend it and make it perfect before it is irrevocably established?” This
may be plausible enough, but it is only plausible. In the first place I remark, that the extent of
these concessions has been greatly exaggerated. They have been stated as amounting to an
admission that the plan is radically defective, and that without material alterations the rights and
the interests of the community cannot be safely confided to it. This, as far as I have understood



                                                                 388
 
                               


the meaning of those who make the concessions, is an entire perversion of their sense. No
advocate of the measure can be found, who will not declare as his sentiment, that the system,
though it may not be perfect in every part, is, upon the whole, a good one; is the best that the
present views and circumstances of the country will permit; and is such an one as promises every
species of security which a reasonable people can desire.

I answer in the next place, that I should esteem it the extreme of imprudence to prolong the
precarious state of our national affairs, and to expose the Union to the jeopardy of successive
experiments, in the chimerical pursuit of a perfect plan. I never expect to see a perfect work from
imperfect man. The result of the deliberations of all collective bodies must necessarily be a
compound, as well of the errors and prejudices, as of the good sense and wisdom, of the
individuals of whom they are composed. The compacts which are to embrace thirteen distinct
States in a common bond of amity and union, must as necessarily be a compromise of as many
dissimilar interests and inclinations. How can perfection spring from such materials?

The reasons assigned in an excellent little pamphlet lately published in this city, are
unanswerable to show the utter improbability of assembling a new convention, under
circumstances in any degree so favorable to a happy issue, as those in which the late convention
met, deliberated, and concluded. I will not repeat the arguments there used, as I presume the
production itself has had an extensive circulation. It is certainly well worthy the perusal of every
friend to his country. There is, however, one point of light in which the subject of amendments
still remains to be considered, and in which it has not yet been exhibited to public view. I cannot
resolve to conclude without first taking a survey of it in this aspect.

It appears to me susceptible of absolute demonstration, that it will be far more easy to obtain
subsequent than previous amendments to the Constitution. The moment an alteration is made in
the present plan, it becomes, to the purpose of adoption, a new one, and must undergo a new
decision of each State. To its complete establishment throughout the Union, it will therefore
require the concurrence of thirteen States. If, on the contrary, the Constitution proposed should
once be ratified by all the States as it stands, alterations in it may at any time be effected by nine
States. Here, then, the chances are as thirteen to nine2 in favor of subsequent amendment, rather
than of the original adoption of an entire system.

This is not all. Every Constitution for the United States must inevitably consist of a great variety
of particulars, in which thirteen independent States are to be accommodated in their interests or
opinions of interest. We may of course expect to see, in any body of men charged with its
original formation, very different combinations of the parts upon different points. Many of those
who form a majority on one question, may become the minority on a second, and an association
dissimilar to either may constitute the majority on a third. Hence the necessity of moulding and
arranging all the particulars which are to compose the whole, in such a manner as to satisfy all
the parties to the compact; and hence, also, an immense multiplication of difficulties and
casualties in obtaining the collective assent to a final act. The degree of that multiplication must
evidently be in a ratio to the number of particulars and the number of parties.



                                                                   389
 
                               



But every amendment to the Constitution, if once established, would be a single proposition, and
might be brought forward singly. There would then be no necessity for management or
compromise, in relation to any other point — no giving nor taking. The will of the requisite
number would at once bring the matter to a decisive issue. And consequently, whenever nine, or
rather ten States, were united in the desire of a particular amendment, that amendment must
infallibly take place. There can, therefore, be no comparison between the facility of affecting an
amendment, and that of establishing in the first instance a complete Constitution.

In opposition to the probability of subsequent amendments, it has been urged that the persons
delegated to the administration of the national government will always be disinclined to yield up
any portion of the authority of which they were once possessed. For my own part I acknowledge
a thorough conviction that any amendments which may, upon mature consideration, be thought
useful, will be applicable to the organization of the government, not to the mass of its powers;
and on this account alone, I think there is no weight in the observation just stated. I also think
there is little weight in it on another account. The intrinsic difficulty of governing THIRTEEN
STATES at any rate, independent of calculations upon an ordinary degree of public spirit and
integrity, will, in my opinion constantly impose on the national rulers the necessity of a spirit of
accommodation to the reasonable expectations of their constituents. But there is yet a further
consideration, which proves beyond the possibility of a doubt, that the observation is futile. It is
this that the national rulers, whenever nine States concur, will have no option upon the subject.
By the fifth article of the plan, the Congres will be obliged “on the application of the legislatures
of two thirds of the States [which at present amount to nine], to call a convention for proposing
amendments, which shall be valid, to all intents and purposes, as part of the Constitution, when
ratified by the legislatures of three fourths of the States, or by conventions in three fourths
thereof.” The words of this article are peremptory. The Congress “shall call a convention.”
Nothing in this particular is left to the discretion of that body. And of consequence, all the
declamation about the disinclination to a change vanishes in air. Nor however difficult it may be
supposed to unite two thirds or three fourths of the State legislatures, in amendments which may
affect local interests, can there be any room to apprehend any such difficulty in a union on points
which are merely relative to the general liberty or security of the people. We may safely rely on
the disposition of the State legislatures to erect barriers against the encroachments of the national
authority.

If the foregoing argument is a fallacy, certain it is that I am myself deceived by it, for it is, in my
conception, one of those rare instances in which a political truth can be brought to the test of a
mathematical demonstration. Those who see the matter in the same light with me, however
zealous they may be for amendments, must agree in the propriety of a previous adoption, as the
most direct road to their own object.

The zeal for attempts to amend, prior to the establishment of the Constitution, must abate in
every man who is ready to accede to the truth of the following observations of a writer equally
solid and ingenious: “To balance a large state or society [says he], whether monarchical or



                                                                    390
 
                              


republican, on general laws, is a work of so great difficulty, that no human genius, however
comprehensive, is able, by the mere dint of reason and reflection, to effect it. The judgments of
many must unite in the work; EXPERIENCE must guide their labor; TIME must bring it to
perfection, and the FEELING of inconveniences must correct the mistakes which they inevitably
fall into in their first trials and experiments.” These judicious reflections contain a lesson of
moderation to all the sincere lovers of the Union, and ought to put them upon their guard against
hazarding anarchy, civil war, a perpetual alienation of the States from each other, and perhaps
the military despotism of a victorious demagogue, in the pursuit of what they are not likely to
obtain, but from TIME and EXPERIENCE. It may be in me a defect of political fortitude, but I
acknowledge that I cannot entertain an equal tranquillity with those who affect to treat the
dangers of a longer continuance in our present situation as imaginary. A NATION, without a
NATIONAL GOVERNMENT, is, in my view, an awful spectacle. The establishment of a
Constitution, in time of profound peace, by the voluntary consent of a whole people, is a
PRODIGY, to the completion of which I look forward with trembling anxiety. I can reconcile it
to no rules of prudence to let go the hold we now have, in so arduous an enterprise, upon seven
out of the thirteen States, and after having passed over so considerable a part of the ground, to
recommence the course. I dread the more the consequences of new attempts, because I know that
POWERFUL INDIVIDUALS, in this and in other States, are enemies to a general national
government in every possible shape.

The Project Gutenberg eBook of The works of Alexander Hamilton (vol. 1 of 7)
    
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The works of Alexander Hamilton (vol. 1 of 7)
        comprising his correspondence, and his political and official writings, exclusive of the Federalist, civil and military.

Author: Alexander Hamilton

Editor: John C. Hamilton


        
Release date: September 25, 2023 [eBook #71719]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: J. F. Trow, 1850

Other information and formats: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/71719

Credits: Bryan Ness, SF2001, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WORKS OF ALEXANDER HAMILTON (VOL. 1 OF 7) ***





 HAMILTON’S WORKS.

 VOL. I

[Illustration: HAMILTON.]

 THE WORKS
 OF
 ALEXANDER HAMILTON;
 COMPRISING
 HIS CORRESPONDENCE,
 AND
 HIS POLITICAL AND OFFICIAL WRITINGS,
 EXCLUSIVE OF THE FEDERALIST,
 CIVIL AND MILITARY.

 PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTS DEPOSITED IN
 THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

 BY ORDER OF
 THE JOINT LIBRARY COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.


 EDITED BY
 JOHN C. HAMILTON,
 AUTHOR OF “THE LIFE OF HAMILTON.”

 VOL. I.

 NEW-YORK:
 JOHN F. TROW, PRINTER, 49, 51 & 53 ANN-STREET.

 M.DCCC.L.

 Joint Committee of the Library of Congress.

 ON THE PART OF THE SENATE.

 JAMES A. PEARCE, of Maryland, _Chairman_.
 JAMES M. MASON, of Virginia.
 JEFFERSON DAVIS, of Mississippi.


 ON THE PART OF THE HOUSE.

 ISAAC E. HOLMES, of South Carolina.
 HORACE MANN, of Massachusetts.
 ALFRED GILMORE, of Pennsylvania.

CORRESPONDENCE.




HAMILTON TO EDWARD STEVENS.


                                      St. Croix, Nov. 11, 1769.

This serves to acknowledge the receipt of yours per Capt. Lowndes,
which was delivered me yesterday. The truth of Captains Lightbowen and
Lowndes’ information is now verified by the presence of your father and
sister, for whose safe arrival I pray, and that they may convey that
satisfaction to your soul that must naturally flow from the sight of
absent friends in health; and shall, for news this way, refer you to
them. As to what you say respecting your soon having the happiness of
seeing us all, I wish for an accomplishment of your hopes, provided
they are concomitant with your welfare, otherwise not; though I doubt
whether I shall be present or not, for, to confess my weakness, Ned, my
ambition is prevalent, so that I contemn the grovelling condition of a
clerk or the like, to which my fortune condemns me, and would willingly
risk my life, though not my character, to exalt my station. I am
confident, Ned, that my youth excludes me from any hopes of immediate
preferment, nor do I desire it; but I mean to prepare the way for
futurity. I’m no philosopher, you see, and may justly be said to build
castles in the air; my folly makes me ashamed, and beg you’ll conceal
it; yet, Neddy, we have seen such schemes successful when the projector
is constant. I shall conclude by saying, I wish there was a war.

P. S. I this moment received yours by William Smith, and am pleased to
see you give such close application to study.




HAMILTON TO TILEMAN CRUGER.


                                      St. Croix, Nov. 16, 1771.

In behalf of Mr. Nicholas Cruger, (who, by reason of a very ill
state of health, went from this to New-York, the 15th ult.,) I have
the pleasure to address you by the long-expected sloop Thunderbolt,
Capt. William Newton, owned by Messrs. Jacob Walton, John Harris, and
Nicholas Cruger, the latter of whom has written you fully concerning
her destination, which I need not repeat. She has on board besides a
parcel of lumber for yourself, sundry articles on account of her owners
as per inclosed bill of lading; and when you have disposed of them, you
will please to credit each partner for one third of the proceeds.

Mr. N. Cruger’s proportion of this, and the balance of your account
hitherto, will more than pay for his one third cost of her first cargo
up; and for the other two, I shall endeavor to place value in your
hands betimes. I only wish for a line from you to know what will best
answer.

Reports here represent matters in a very disagreeable light, with
regard to the Guarda Costas, which are said to swarm upon the coast;
but as you will be the best judge of what danger there might be, all is
submitted to your prudent direction.

Capt. Newton must arm with you, as he could not so conveniently do it
here. Give me leave to hint to you that you cannot be too particular
in your instructions to him. I think he seems to want experience in
such voyages. Messrs. Walton and John H. Cruger are to furnish you
themselves with their respective proportion of the cost of the several
cargoes.

The staves on board, if by any means convenient, I beg may be returned
by the sloop, they will command a good price here, and I suppose little
or nothing with you; could they be got at I would not send them down,
but they are stowed promiscuously among other things.

If convenient, please to deliver the hogsheads, now containing the
Indian meal, to the captain as water casks, and others should he want
them. I supplied him with twenty here. I must beg your reference to Mr.
Cruger’s last letter of the 2d ult. for other particulars.

Our crop will be very early, so that the utmost dispatch is necessary
to import three cargoes of mules in due time.




TO CAPTAIN WILLIAM NEWTON.


                                      St. Croix, Nov. 16, 1771.

Herewith I give you all your dispatches, and desire you will proceed
immediately to Curracoa. You are to deliver your cargo there to Tileman
Cruger, Esq., agreeably to your bill of lading, whose directions you
must follow in every respect concerning the disposal of your vessel
after your arrival.

You know it is intended that you shall go from thence to the main
for a load of mules, and I must beg if you do, you’ll be very choice
in the quality of your mules, and bring as many as your vessel can
conveniently contain--by all means take in a large supply of provender.
Remember, you are to make three trips this season, and unless you are
very diligent you will be too late, as our crops will be early in. Take
care to avoid the Guarda Costas. I place an entire reliance upon the
prudence of your conduct.




NEW-YORK, AUGUST 31, 1776.


PAY-BOOK

OF THE

_State Company of Artillery_,

COMMANDED BY

Alex’r Hamilton.

Specimen of Notes scattered throughout this Pay-Book.


  Rousseau’s Emilius.
  Smith’s History of New-York.
  Leonidas.
  View of the Universe.
  Lex Mercatoria.
  Millot’s History of France.
  Memoirs of the House of Brandenburgh.
  Review of the characters of the principal Nations of Europe.
  Review of Europe.
  History of Prussia.
  History of France.
  Lassel’s Voyage through Italy.
  Robinson’s Charles V.
  Present State of Europe.
  Grecian History.
  Baretti’s Travels.
  Bacon’s Essays.
  Philosophical Transactions.
  Hobbe’s Dialogues.
  Plutarch’s Morals.
  Cicero’s do.
  Orations--Demosthenes.
  Cudworth’s Intellectual System.
  Entick’s History of the late War.
  European Settlements in America.
  Ralt’s Dictionary of Trade and Commerce.
  Winn’s History of America.
  Montaigne’s Essays.

The Dutch in the Greenland fishery have from 150 to 200 sail and ten
thousand seamen.

It is ordered that in their public prayers they pray that it would
please God to bless the Government--the Lords--the States and their
great and small fisheries.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hamburgh and Germany has a balance against England--they furnish her
with large quantities of linen. Trade with France greatly against
England.

The trade with Flanders in favor of England.

A large balance in favor of Norway and Denmark.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rate of Exchange with the several Nations in 52, viz.:

To Venice, Genoa, Leghorn, Antwerp, Amsterdam, Hamburgh.

To Paris--Loss, Gain.

       *       *       *       *       *

Postlethwaite supposes the quantity of cash necessary to carry on the
circulation in a State one third of the rents to the land proprietors,
or one ninth of the whole product of the lands.

See the articles Cash and Circulation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Messagers in his Secret Memoirs says, that when he returned with an
account to Lewis XIV. that the Spaniards would not come into his
project for attacking Jamaica, the Monarch was much chagrined at their
refusal, and said, “They were the most stupid wise people in the world.”

The par betwen, land and labor is twice the quantity of land whose
product will maintain the laborer. In France one acre and a half will
maintain one. In England three, owing to the difference in the manner
of living.

Aristotle’s Politics, chap. 6, definition of money, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

The proportion of gold and silver, as settled by Sir Isaac Newton’s
proposition, was 1 to 14. It was generally through Europe 1 to 15. In
China I believe it is 1 to 10.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is estimated that the labor of twenty-five persons, on an average,
will maintain a hundred in all the necessaries of life.

       *       *       *       *       *

Postlethwaite, in his time, supposes six millions of people in England.
The ratio of increase has been found by a variety of observations to
be, that 100,000 people augment annually, one year with another,
to----. Mr. Kerseboom, agreeing with Dr. Halley, makes the number of
people thirty-five times the number of births in a year.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extracts from Demosthenes’ Orations.

Philippic 1. “As a general marches at the head of his troops, so ought
wise politicians, if I dare use the expression, to march at the head
of affairs; insomuch that they ought not to wait _the event_, to know
what measures to take; but the measures which they have taken ought to
produce the _event_.”

“Where attack him? it will be said. Ah, Athenians--war, war itself will
discover to you his weak sides, if you seek them.”

                                     Sublimely simple. Vide Long. c. 16.

       *       *       *       *       *

Are the limits of the several States and the acts on which they are
founded ascertained, and are our ministers provided with them? What
intelligence has been given to Congress by our ministers of the
designs, strength by sea and land, actual interests and views of the
different powers in Europe?

       *       *       *       *       *

The Government established (by Lycurgus) remained in vigor about
five hundred years, till a thirst of empire tempted the Spartans to
entertain foreign troops, and introduce Persian gold to maintain them;
then the institutions of Lycurgus fell at once, and avarice and luxury
succeeded.

       *       *       *       *       *

He (Numa) was a wise prince, and went a great way in civilizing the
Romans. The chief engine he employed for this purpose was religion,
which could alone have sufficient empire over the minds of a barbarous
and warlike people to engage them to cultivate the arts of peace.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doctor Halley’s Table of Observations exhibiting the probabilities of
life; containing an account of the whole number of people at Breslau,
capital of Silesia, and the number of those of every age from one to a
hundred. [Here follows the Table, with comments by A. H.]

       *       *       *       *       *

When the native money is worth more than the par in foreign, exchange
is high; when worth less it is low.

Portugal trade--Spanish trade--Artificers--Money--Exchange--Par
of exchange--Balance of trade--Manufactures--Foundry--Coin--Gold--
Silver--Naval power--Council of trade--Fishery.

       *       *       *       *       *

Money coined in England from the reign of Queen Elizabeth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Short rule to determine the average interest per annum, for any sum of
money for a given term of years, at a given rate--discharging annually
an equal proportion of the principal. Example.

       *       *       *       *       *

Quere. Would it not be advisable to let all taxes, even those imposed
by the States, be collected by persons of Congressional appointment;
and would it not be advisable to pay the collectors so much per cent.
on the sums collected?




HAMILTON TO THE PROVINCIAL CONGRESS OF NEW-YORK.


                                        New-York, May 26, 1776.

Gentlemen:

I take the liberty to request your attention to a few particulars,
which will be of considerable importance to the future progress of
the company under my command: and I shall be much obliged to you for
as speedy a determination concerning them as you can conveniently
give. The most material is respecting the pay. Our company, by their
articles, are to be subject to the same regulations, and to receive the
same pay, as the Continental Artillery. Hitherto I have conformed to
the standard laid down in the Journal of the Congress, published the
10th May, 1775; but I am well informed that, by some later regulation,
the pay of the Artillery has been augmented, and now stands according
to the following rates: Captain, £10. 13. 4. Captain-Lieutenant, £8.
Lieutenants, each, £7. 6. 8. Sergeants, £3. 6. 8. Corporals, £3. 1. 4.
Bombardiers, £3. 1. 4. Gunners, £3. Matrosses, £2. 17. 4. Drummers and
Fifers, £3. By comparing these with my pay-rolls, you will discover a
considerable difference; and I doubt not you will be easily sensible
that such a difference should not exist.

I am not personally interested in having an augmentation agreeably
to the above rates, because my own pay will remain the same as that
it now is: but I make this application on behalf of the company; as
I am fully convinced such a disadvantageous distinction will have a
very pernicious effect on the minds and behavior of the men. They
do the same duty with the other companies, and think themselves
entitled to the same pay. They have been already comparing accounts;
and many marks of discontent have lately appeared on this score.
As to the circumstance of our being confined to the defence of the
colony, it will have little or no weight; for there are but few in the
company, who would not as willingly leave the colony on any necessary
expedition, as stay in it: and they will not, therefore, think it
reasonable to have their pay curtailed on such a consideration. Captain
Beauman, I understand, enlists all his men on the above terms; and
this makes it difficult for me to get a single recruit: for men will
naturally go to those who pay them best. On this account, I should
wish to be immediately authorized to offer the same pay to all who may
incline to enlist. The next thing I should wish to know, is, whether I
must be allowed any _actual expenses_ that might attend the enlistment
of men, should I send into the country for that purpose. The expense
would not be great; and it would enable me to complete my company at
once, and bring it the sooner into proper order and discipline.

Also, I should be glad to be informed, if my company is to be allowed
the frock which is given to the other troops as a bounty? This frock
would be extremely serviceable in summer, while the men are on fatigue;
and would put it in their power to save their uniform much longer. I
am, gentlemen, with the greatest respect,

                                   Your most obedient servant,
                                   Alexander Hamilton, Captain.




HAMILTON TO THE PROVINCIAL CONGRESS.

                                                          July 26, 1776.

Gentlemen:

I am obliged to trouble you, to remove a difficulty which arises
respecting the quantity of subsistence which is to be allowed my men.
Inclosed you have the rates of rations, which is the standard allowance
of the whole continental, and even the provincial, army; but it seems
Mr. Curtenius cannot afford to supply us with more than his contract
stipulates; which, by comparison, you will perceive is considerably
less than the forementioned rate.

My men, you are sensible, are, by their articles, entitled to the same
subsistence with the continental troops: and it would be to them an
insupportable discrimination, as well as a breach of the terms of their
enlistment, to give them almost a third less provisions than the whole
army besides receives. I doubt not you will readily put this matter
upon a proper footing.

Hitherto we have drawn our full allowance from Mr. Curtenius; but he
did it upon the supposition that he would have a farther consideration
for the extraordinary supply.

At present, however, he scruples to proceed in the same way, till it
can be put upon a more certain foundation. I am, gentlemen,

                                  With the utmost esteem and respect,
                                  Your most ob’t and most humble serv’t,
                                  A. Hamilton,
                                  Captain of New-York Artillery.




HAMILTON TO THE HONORABLE CONVENTION OF NEW-YORK.


                                        New-York, August, 1776.

It is necessary I should inform you that there is at present a vacancy
in my company, arising from the promotion of Lieut. Johnson to a
Captaincy in one of the new Gallies (which command, however, he has
since resigned for a very particular reason). As Artillery officers
are scarce in proportion to the call for them, and as myself and my
remaining officers sustain an extraordinary weight of duty on account
of the present vacancy, I shall esteem it a favor, if you will be
pleased, as soon as possible, to make up my deficiency by a new
appointment. It would be productive of much inconvenience should not
the inferior officers succeed in course, and from this consideration
I doubt not you will think it proper to advance Mr. Gilleland and Mr.
Bean, and fill up the third lieutenancy with some other person. I
would beg the liberty _warmly_ to recommend to your attention Thomas
Thompson--now first Sergeant in my company--a man highly deserving
of notice and preferment. He has discharged his duty in his present
station with uncommon fidelity, assiduity, and expertness. He is a very
good disciplinarian--possesses the advantage of having seen a good deal
of service in Germany, has a tolerable share of common sense, and will
not disgrace the rank of an officer and gentleman. In a word, I verily
believe, he will make an excellent Lieutenant, and his advancement will
be a great encouragement and benefit to my company in particular, and
will be an animating example to all men of merit to whose knowledge
it comes. Myself and my officers will be much obliged to the Hon. the
Convention to favor us with our commissions with all convenient speed,
as they may be highly requisite under some circumstances that may
possibly hereafter arise.

                                          A. Hamilton,
                                          Captain of New-York Artillery.




LT. COL. HAMILTON TO THE PROVINCIAL CONGRESS.


                                     Morristown, March 6, 1777.

Gentlemen:

It is necessary I should inform you of the changes which have happened
in your Company of Artillery, which should have been done long ago, had
I not been prevented by sickness, from which I am but lately recovered.

General Washington has been pleased to appoint me one of his
Aids-de-Camp. Captain-Lieutenant James Moore, a promising officer,
and who did credit to the State he belonged to, died about nine weeks
ago. Lieutenant James Gilleland, some time before that, resigned his
commission, prompted by domestic inconveniences, and _other_ motives
best known to himself. There remain now only two officers, Lieutenants
Bean and Thompson, and about thirty men. The reason that the number of
men is so reduced, besides death and desertions, was owing to a breach
of orders in Lieutenant Johnson, who first began the enlistment of the
company; and who, instead of engaging them during the war, according
to the intention of the State, engaged them for the limited term of a
twelvemonth. The time of those enlisted by him has expired; and for
want of powers to re-engage them, they have mostly entered into other
corps.

I have to request you will favor me with instructions as to your future
intentions. If you design to retain the company on the particular
establishment of the State, it will be requisite to complete the number
of officers, and make provision to have the company filled by a new
enlistment. In this case, I should beg leave to recommend to your
notice, as far as a Captain-Lieutenancy, Mr. Thompson. Mr. Bean is so
incurably addicted to a _certain failing_, that I cannot, in justice,
give my opinion in favor of his preferment. But if you should determine
to resign the company, as I expect you will, considering it as an
extraordinary burthen, without affording any special advantages, the
Continent will readily take it off your hands, so soon as you shall
intimate your design to relinquish it. I doubt not you will see the
propriety of speedily deciding on the matter, which the good of the
service requires.

                            I am, with the sincerest respect, gentlemen,
                            Your most ob’t and most humble servant,
                            Alex. Hamilton.




THE COMMITTEE OF CONVENTION TO HAMILTON.


                                      Kingston, March 17, 1777.

Dear Sir:

We are to inform you, that Robert R. Livingston is, with us, a
committee appointed by Convention to correspond with you at Head
Quarters. You will give us pleasure in the information that His
Excellency is recovered from the illness which had seized him the day
before Messrs. Cuyler and Taylor left Head Quarters. Any occurrences in
the army which may have happened, you will please to communicate.

In answer to your letter to the Convention, of the sixth of March
instant, we are to inform you, that it is determined to permit that
company to join the Continental Army, for which you will take the
necessary steps. At the same time, you will take some notice of the
disposition of our guns, which, as you well know, are all in the
Continental service; and unless some little attention is paid to them,
we may, perhaps, never see them again.

                                   We are, Sir,
                                   Your most obed’t and humble servants,
                                   Gouv. Morris,
                                   Wm. Allison.




GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO HAMILTON.


                                      Kingston, 26 March, 1777.

Sir:

By unavoidable incidents, this letter is delayed beyond the usual
time; for which I assure you I am extremely sorry. Your favor gave
great pleasure, as well to the committee as to several members of the
House, who are much pleased with your judicious caution, to distinguish
between what you sport as your private opinions, and the weighty
sentiments of the General.

No circumstance could have more contributed to our happiness, than to
hear of the General’s recovery; which, believe me, gave universal joy.
Be pleased to make my most respectful compliments to his lady.

That the enemy are willing to desert, can hardly be doubted; and a
variety of sufficient reasons may easily be assigned.

Want of success is not among the least considerable: add also the want
of pay, the want of plunder. I think the situation of the enemy clearly
demonstrates the want of political wisdom, and knowledge of war, at
the fountain head. To pass over the succession of other blunders
they committed, from their attempt on Long Island to their present
disposition, their treatment of the soldiery is a monument of folly.
First, to prevent their foreign mercenaries from deserting, they kept
back arrearages of pay. And secondly, to prevent mutiny, and silence
murmurings, they allowed the plundering of a country they intend to
conquer. Here common sense alone would have informed them, had they
listened to her dictates, that by irritating they would never subdue;
and that an indulgence in excesses would relax all discipline. Taught
by experience, they begin now to wind up the cords; but as it was said
of James the First, they are always either too high or too low. Instead
of liberal discipline, they ask servile obedience. Would it not be
wise to meet this with taunting insult? To encourage our men in abuse
of them, as poor slaves, hired without pay, yet not daring to vent a
complaint; and contrast the different situations: at the same time
inviting them to come and taste the air of freedom? The English are the
proudest people on earth.

You will hear more of a little expedition against Peekskill at Head
Quarters than I can tell you. I suppose it is intended as a diversion;
if so, it is a ridiculous one.

                                                  I am, &c.,
                                                  Gouv. Morris.




Col. Alex. Hamilton.




LIVINGSTON TO HAMILTON.


                                      Kingston, March 29, 1777.

Sir:

We received your favor of the--instant, and am obliged to you not
only for your acceptance of a very troublesome challenge, but for the
alacrity with which you meet us in the field. We wish it would afford
you as many laurels, as you are like to reap elsewhere.

You have heard of the enemy’s little excursion to Peekskill; we wish it
may not encourage them to make a more serious attempt: may it not be
proper to remove the stores to a place of greater safety?

We are somewhat alarmed at accounts of the Indians having left their
villages; from whence many conclude, that they have hostile intentions:
though as they are much in our power, we cannot be entirely of this
opinion.

Your reasons for supposing that the enemy will not proceed to
Philadelphia till the beginning of May seem to be conclusive; are you
equally well satisfied that they may not open their campaign by sailing
to the northward? You have probably seen some affidavits of people who
had been to New-York, which were sent by Convention to his Excellency
the General. As this does not go by our own express, we do not care to
risk any thing more on this subject, which we shall treat more at large
in our next.

Time must shortly prove the truth of Mr. Franklin’s conjecture, which
derives great credit from the several accounts we daily receive of
the state of Europe. You will oblige us by communicating any further
intelligence you may have received on this subject; its importance
renders us solicitous about the event.

                                         I am, Sir, by order,
                                         Your most obed’t humble serv’t,
                                         Robert R. Livingston.

Col. Alexander Hamilton.




THE COMMITTEE OF CONVENTION TO HAMILTON.


                                       Kingston, April 2, 1777.

Sir:

We received yours of the 29th ultimo, and are extremely sorry to hear
of your indisposition.

In our last we expressed an apprehension that the enemy might possibly
make Hudson’s river their first object; not only because they could
open their campaign there earlier than they could go to Pennsylvania
(as in one case their army would move by land, and in the other by
water); but because, having the command of the river, by taking the
advantage of a southerly wind, they would have it in their power to
run up in a few hours; and, by destroying the boats that are along its
banks, render it impossible for General Washington’s army to cross
till they have marched to Albany; a thing almost impracticable at this
season of the year, considering the distance, and badness of the roads.
This would enable them, not only to ravage all this State, but to enter
Connecticut on its western side, where the disaffection of the people
will insure them many friends. We have strained every nerve to prepare
for their reception, having vested a power in General George Clinton
to make whatever draughts he may think necessary from the militia:
in consequence of which, every third man is ordered to be drawn
from the southern, and every fifth man from the northern counties.
We are not without apprehensions that these heavy draughts will be
dreadfully felt, in the want of the necessary supplies for the army
and inhabitants, which can hardly be raised under such circumstances
in this State: but more remote evils must yield to the pressures of
necessity. We inclose you, by direction of Convention, some resolutions
lately passed, in order to render the laws against spies, and secret
enemies, more effectual. You will be pleased to deliver them, with our
respectful compliments, to His Excellency the General.

We are happy to hear of the arrival of the vessel with arms from
France, as no supplies can be more necessary. We flatter ourselves
that it will shortly be in our power to communicate more important
intelligence from that quarter.

                                 We are, with great respect, Sir,
                                 Your most obedient and humble servants,
                                 Wm. Allison.
                                 Rob’t R. Livingston.
                                 Gouv’r Morris.

Col. Alex. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO A COMMITTEE OF THE PROVINCIAL CONGRESS.


                      Head Quarters, Morristown, April 5, 1777.

Gentlemen:

Since my last I have had the pleasure of receiving your reply to my
two favors of the 29th ultimo and 2d current. I am happy enough to be
able to inform you, that my indisposition, which was the occasion of my
brevity when I last wrote, is now removed.

The opinion I advanced respecting the enemy’s not moving before the
beginning of May, seems to be shaken, though not entirely overthrown,
by some present appearances. We have received information that they are
embarking about three thousand men on board of transports, which are
lying at the Hook, by way of Staten Island. This, it is conjectured,
is with a view to the Delaware; and the supposition is confirmed, by
the circumstance of a confederacy lately detected at Philadelphia,
who, among other things, were endeavoring, by the temptation of
fifty pounds, to engage persons as pilots up that river. The extreme
difficulties they must labor under for want of forage, and the infinite
hazard they must run by moving with a small body of about five thousand
men, with an enemy in the rear, incapable of sparing any considerable
body of troops to form a post behind, and be an asylum to them in case
of accident,--these circumstances will hardly allow me to think they
will be daring enough to make the attempt at this time. But on the
other hand, as they know we are in a progressive state as to numbers,
and other matters of importance, and as they have no prospect of early
reinforcement, and are in a state of uncertainty as to any, from the
bustling aspect of European affairs, it is probable they may conceive
a necessity of making a push at all risks. Perhaps, however, this
embarkation is intended for some other purpose; to make a diversion,
or execute some partisan exploit elsewhere. On the whole, I find it
difficult to believe they are yet ready for any capital operation.

As to your apprehensions of an attempt up the North river, I imagine
you may discard any uneasiness on that score, although it will be at
all times advisable to be on the watch against such a contingency.
It is almost reduced to a certainty, that the principal views of the
enemy, in the ensuing campaign, will be directed towards the southward,
and to Philadelphia more immediately; of which idea, the discovery
before mentioned, with respect to pilots, is no inconsiderable
confirmation. Philadelphia is an object calculated to strike and
attract their attention. It has all along been the main source of
supplies towards the war; and the getting it into their possession,
would deprive us of a wheel we could very badly spare, in the great
political and military machine. They are sensible of this, and are
equally sensible, that it contains, in itself, and is surrounded by,
a prodigious number of persons attached to them, and inimical to us,
who would lend them all the assistance they could, in the further
prosecution of their designs. It is also a common and well-grounded
rule in war, to strike first and principally, at the capital towns and
cities, in order to the conquest of a country.

I must confess I do not see any object equally interesting to draw
their efforts to the northward. Operations merely for plundering and
devastation can never answer their end; and if they could, one part of
the continent would do nearly as well as another. And as to the notion
of forming a junction with the northern army, and cutting off the
communication between the northern and southern States, I apprehend it
will do better in speculation than in practice. Unless the geography
of the country is far different from any thing I can conceive, to
effect this would require a chain of posts, and such a number of men at
each, as would never be practicable or maintainable, but to an immense
army. In their progress, by hanging upon their rear, and seizing
every opportunity of skirmishing, their situation might be rendered
insupportably uneasy.

But for fear of mistake, the General has determined to collect a
considerable body of troops at or about Peekskill, which will not be
drawn off till the intentions of the enemy have acquired a decisive
complexion. These will be ready, according to conjunctures, either to
proceed northerly or southerly, as may be requisite. Every precaution
should be taken to prevent the boats from being destroyed, by
collecting them, at the first movement of the enemy, under cover of
one of the forts, or into some inlet, difficult of access, and easily
defensible with a small number of men. The loss of them would be an
irreparable disadvantage.

The enemy’s attempt upon Peekskill is a demonstration of the folly
of having any quantity of stores at places so near the water, and so
much exposed to a sudden inroad. There should never be more there than
sufficient to answer present demands. We have lost a good deal in this
way at different times, and I hope experience will at last make us
wiser.

His Excellency lately had a visit from the Oneida Chief and five
others. He managed them with a good deal of address, and sent them
away perfectly satisfied. He persuaded them to go to Philadelphia, but
they declined it, alleging their impatience to return, and remove the
erroneous opinions of their countrymen, from the misrepresentations of
British emissaries, which they were apprehensive might draw them into
some rash proceedings. They parted, after having made the most solemn
protestations of friendship and good will. His Excellency has been very
busy all day in dispatching the southern post, which has prevented me
giving him your resolve. It will, no doubt, be very acceptable; and
it is with pleasure I inform you, that the zeal and abilities of the
New-York Convention hold the first rank in his estimation.

No news from France, save that the Congress have obtained a credit
there, for which they can draw bills to the amount of £100,000
sterling. This will be extremely serviceable in carrying on a trade
with the French. The new troops begin to come in. If we can shortly get
any considerable accession of strength, we may be able to strike some
brilliant stroke.

                             I am, Gentlemen, with the greatest respect,
                             Your most obedient servant,
                             A. Hamilton.

P. S. We have been some time endeavoring to negotiate a regular cartel;
but it has been lately broken off, principally on account of Major
General Lee. General Howe will not allow him to be comprehended under
the general idea of American prisoners.




THE COMMITTEE OF CONVENTION TO HAMILTON.


                                     Kingston, 8th April, 1777.

Sir:

Yours of the third came safe to hand this day, and gave us great
pleasure by certifying your health. The smallness of our numbers
will not permit the loss of one useful citizen. It is, therefore, a
determined point, that, sick or well, you are by no means to die.

At this distance, it is impossible to determine what the enemy can, or
what they cannot, do. But, certainly, if we can bring a respectable
force into the field previous to their movements, it must be extremely
difficult for them to advance or retreat. The latter, indeed, may be
assisted by the works they are throwing up.

Their attempt upon the Delaware is far from improbable. Howe is
certainly a stupid fellow: but if he reasons so far, the taking of
Philadelphia would give a splendid sight to their manœuvres in the
eyes of Europe. This would be productive of advantage. The seizing that
large city, would also afford him much benefit in the several ways
which you suggest. But would it not be wise to permit his force to be
thus divided, that one part after another might be cut to pieces?

Since the affair at Peekskill, their views this way seem to be less
probable. It was, doubtless, unmilitary to warn us of our danger. They
will also soon learn that we are in this quarter, in a decent posture
of defence; and that may decide their fluctuating councils.

Perhaps, after all, they will find it more convenient to keep post at
Amboy, with an advanced party at Brunswick, secure New-York, and carry
on a kind of naval partisan war, till the further aid and order of
their masters.

You will take care, whenever you write to us matters which ought not
to be seen by all, to direct to _one_ of _us_ only in a separate
letter: while that which is merely indifferent, comes under your usual
direction. The reason is, that sometimes, when we do not happen to be
immediately in the way, your letters are opened by the President; and
although no evil consequences have accrued from this as yet, it is
nevertheless proper to guard against it.

What you say relative to a cartel, reminds us of the case of Major
Edminston, who was taken by General Schuyler at the same time with Sir
John Johnson. This gentleman, as His Excellency will recollect, was
sent into the enemy’s quarters, with a letter to negotiate an exchange
for one of three Majors, prisoners in their hands. He hath since
returned, with a letter from Howe to General Schuyler, purporting that
one of those Majors shall be exchanged for him, he being permitted
to join his regiment in Canada. He was three weeks, or thereabouts,
travelling from New-York to Albany; of which the Convention being
informed, caused him to be made prisoner, and intend sending him to
Head Quarters. He is well acquainted with the face of this country, and
the disposition of its several inhabitants. He has sufficient interest
with the Indians to accomplish an escape. Upon the whole (as it will
not be prudent to confine him within this State), it is submitted,
whether it would not be proper to secure him elsewhere until the close
of the present campaign?

                                     We are, Sir,
                                     Your most ob’t and humble servants,
                                     Robt. R. Livingston,
                                     Gouv. Morris.

Colonel Hamilton.




LORD STIRLING TO HAMILTON.


                                   Baskenridge, April 12, 1777.

Dear Sir:

The troops under Colonel McClanagan, which I expected at their quarters
between the first and second mountains yesterday, I find took the
route by Pluckamin and lodged there last night. I sent this morning at
daybreak a messenger to bring them into the Boundbrook Road at Boylans.
I understand Col. Spotswood’s regiment is on the march by the same
route.

The time of Capt. James Scott’s company will expire the 14th. Lieut.
Kidgelow and the bulk of the men have behaved very well; as they can
now be spared, I believe it will be best that I be furnished with His
Excellency’s dismission of them by the day.

I wrote to His Excellency on Thursday last about the appointment of
Wilcocks. If he is approved of I wish you would get both Mr. Williams
and him in orders, and that you would be so good as to write him to
come to me.

If there be any thing in General Orders within these two or three days
that can relate to the troops here, I should be glad to have a copy of
them.

                                        I am, very sincerely,
                                        Your affectionate humble servt.,
                                        Stirling.

Colonel Hamilton.




THE COMMITTEE OF CONVENTION TO HAMILTON


                                    Kingston, 16th April, 1777.

Sir:

We are directed, by Convention, to inclose a Resolution passed this
day, in addition to that of the first of April, which we before did
ourselves the honor to transmit to His Excellency, by which we hope to
put an effectual stop to any further desertions to the enemy; as the
disaffected have been hitherto greatly emboldened by their having, for
the want of courts, escaped the punishment they deserved. It frequently
happens, that ignorant young lads are seduced to enlist with the enemy,
and are taken in their way to them. We have sometimes thought that such
might safely be admitted to enlist in our regiments (which they are
generally inclined to do), as a change of company will often make an
alteration in their sentiments, in which case a useful number may be
preserved to the community. We wish you to consult the General on this
subject, and to favor us with his opinion, by which we shall regulate
our future conduct relative to such persons.

We are obliged to you for communicating by Mr. Troop, an account of the
engagement of Sunday, in which we equally admire the extreme caution
of the enemy, and the spirit of that handful of men by whom they were
opposed. The same bravery will, we hope, prove as fortunate, when a
fairer occasion offers for its exertion. We have daily information of
plots that are formed in this State; and a few days ago apprehended a
Colonel who was raising a regiment for the service of the enemy. We
hope, by a seasonable severity, to prevent this evil from becoming very
extensive.

                                                        We are, Sir, &c.




HAMILTON TO LIVINGSTON.


                     Head Quarters, Morristown, April 29, 1777.

Sir:

The inclosed was intended to be sent with the prisoners mentioned in
the list; but before this could be conveniently done, Mr. Sims, one
of the Chief Justices of the State, came to this town, and informed
me, that the Governor and Council were upon the point of adjourning;
and that the sending of the prisoners to them, would only be an
embarrassment, without answering, at present, any valuable purpose. He
considered himself authorized to take the matter under his direction,
and desired a sight of the papers relating to it. After perusing them,
he determined it was best the prisoners should remain here, until he
should receive your further orders on the subject; and delivered me a
letter for you, containing a representation of their cases, as they
appear to him, in order to know your sense, in what manner they shall
be disposed of.

He admits two of them, Woolverton and Silas Howel, to bail.

In addition to the former, I send you a second list of four others that
have been lately committed to jail. These are high offenders, and among
the number of those who it were to be wished could have an immediate
trial and punishment. Isaac Ogden, in particular, is one of the most
barefaced impudent fellows that ever came under my observation. He
openly acknowledged himself a subject of the King of Great Britain; and
flatly refused to give any satisfaction to some questions that were
put to him respecting one Moses Nichols, an emissary from the enemy;
assigning no other reason for his refusal, than that he had given his
word to be silent.

A spirit of disaffection shows itself with so much boldness and
violence in different parts of this State, that it is the ardent wish
of His Excellency, no delay, which can be avoided, might be used in
making examples of some of the most atrocious offenders. If something
be not speedily done, to strike a terror into the disaffected, the
consequences must be very disagreeable.

Among others, all security to the friends of the American cause will
be destroyed; and the natural effect of this, will be an extinction of
zeal in seconding and promoting it. Their attachment, if it remain,
will be a dead, inactive, useless principle. And the disaffected,
emboldened by impunity, will be encouraged to proceed to the most
dangerous and pernicious lengths.

                             I have the honor to be, with great respect,
                             Your Excellency’s most ob’t servant,
                             A. Hamilton, A. D. C.

To Gov. Livingston.




HUGH KNOX TO HAMILTON.


                                             St. Croix, April 31, 1777.

My Dear Friend:

A pretty fair opportunity just offering for Philadelphia, I could
not omit acknowledging the receipt of your very circumstantial and
satisfactory letter of the 14th February. The thing has happened
which I wished for. We have been amazed here by vague, imperfect,
and very false accounts of matters from the Continent: and I always
told my friends, that if you survived the campaign, and had an hour
of leisure to write to me, I expected a more true, circumstantial,
and satisfactory account of matters in your letter, than by all the
public papers and private intelligence we had received here. I have
but a moment to command at present, and have not time to remark
upon your letter. I can only inform you, that it has given high
satisfaction to all friends here. We rejoice in your _good character_
and _advancement_, which is, indeed, only the just reward of merit. May
you still live to deserve more and more from the friends of America,
and to justify the choice, and merit the approbation, of the GREAT AND
GOOD GENERAL WASHINGTON--a name which will shine with distinguished
lustre in the annals of history--a name dear to the friends of the
Liberties of Mankind! _Mark this_: You must be the Annalist and
Biographer, as well as the Aide-de-Camp, of General Washington--and
the Historiographer of the AMERICAN WAR! I take the liberty to insist
on this. I hope you take minutes and keep a Journal! If you have not
hitherto, I pray do it henceforth. I seriously, and with all my little
influence, urge this upon you. This may be a new and strange thought
to you: but if you survive the present troubles, _I aver_--few men
will be as well qualified to write the history of the present glorious
struggle. God only knows how it may terminate. But however that may be,
it will be a most interesting story.

I congratulate you on your recovery from a long and dangerous illness.
It is my own case--I am just convalescent, after the severest attack
I ever had in my life. I hope to write you more at large soon, and
remain, with the tender of every kind and friendly wish,

                                              My dear Sir,
                                              Your affectionate servant,
                                              Hugh Knox.




HAMILTON TO WILLIAM DUER.


                      Head Quarters, Morristown, 6th May, 1777.

Sir:

The bearer of this is Mr. Malmedi, a French gentleman of learning,
abilities, and experience. I believe he thinks himself entitled
to preferment, and comes to Congress for that purpose. At the
recommendation of General Lee, he was made Brigadier General by the
State of Rhode Island; and filled the station to the satisfaction of
his employers, as appears by a letter from Governor Cook, speaking
of him in the highest terms of approbation. This has led him to hope
that he should be adopted by the Continent on an equal footing. But
in this he will, no doubt, be mistaken, as there are many insuperable
objections to such an event. Among others, it would tend to raise
the expectations of the Frenchmen in general, already too high, to a
pitch which it would be impossible to gratify or endure. It might not,
however, be amiss to do whatever propriety would warrant to keep him
in good humor, as he is a man of sense and merit. I think policy would
justify the advancing him a step higher than his former Continental
rank.

Congress, in the beginning, went upon a very injudicious plan with
respect to Frenchmen. To every adventurer that came, without even
the shadow of credentials, they gave the rank of Field officers.
This circumstance, seconding the aspiring disposition natural to
those people, carried the expectations of those who had really any
pretensions to the character of officers, to a length that exceeds all
the bounds of moderation. As it was impossible to pursue this impolitic
plan, the Congress have begun to retrench their excessive liberality;
and the consequence has been, universal disgust and discontent.

It would, perhaps, be injurious, as the French are much addicted
to national punctilio, to run into the opposite extreme to that
first embraced, and, by that mean, create a general clamor and
dissatisfaction. Policy suggests the propriety of discriminating a few
of the most deserving, and endeavoring to keep them in temper, even by
gratifying them beyond what they can reasonably pretend to. This will
enable us to shake off the despicable part with safety, and to turn
a deaf ear to the exorbitant demands of the many. It will easily be
believed in France that their want of merit occasioned their want of
success, from the extraordinary marks of favor that have been conferred
on others: whereas, the united voice of complaint from the whole, might
make ill impressions in their own country, which it is not our interest
should exist.

We are already greatly embarrassed with the Frenchmen among us; and,
from the genius of the people, shall continue to be so. It were to be
wished, that our agents in France, instead of courting them to come
out, were instructed to give no encouragement but where they could
not help it; that is, where applications were made to them by persons
countenanced and supported by great men, whom it would be impolitic to
disoblige. Be assured, Sir, we shall never be able to satisfy them; and
they can be of no use to us, at least for some time. Their ignorance
of our language; of the disposition of the people; the resources and
deficiencies of the country; their own habits and tempers: all these
are disqualifications that put it out of their power to be of any real
service to us. You will consider what I have said entirely as my own
sentiments, and,

                                     Believe me, with great regard, Sir,
                                     Your most obedient servant,
                                     A. Hamilton.

William Duer, Esq.




GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO HAMILTON.


                                      Kingston, 16th May, 1777.

Sir:

I had the pleasure of your two favors within two days of each other,
and am very happy to find that our form of government meets with your
approbation. That there are faults in it is not to be wondered at, for
it is the work of men, and of men, perhaps, not the best qualified
for such undertakings. I think it deficient, for the want of vigor
in the executive; unstable, from the very nature of popular elective
governments; and dilatory, from the complexity of the legislature.

For the first, I apologize by hinting the spirit which now reigns in
America, suspiciously cautious. For the second, because unavoidable.
For the third, because a simple legislature soon possesses itself of
too much power for the safety of its subjects. God grant it may work
well, for we must live under it.

I cannot persuade myself that Howe will either go to Philadelphia or
come hither. In either case, General Washington can hang upon his
rear, and place him in the light rather of a fugitive than a conqueror.
If he bends his efforts this way, the Council of Safety, you may
depend upon it, will exert themselves to make his situation as uneasy
as he would wish; probably more so. The spirit of the Tories, we have
great reason to believe, is entirely broken in this State. If it is
not, it will soon be so; for they shall have a few more executions,
than which nothing can be more efficacious. I speak from experience:
but then it is necessary to disperse the victims of public justice
throughout different parts of the several States; for nothing but
ocular demonstration can convince these incredulous beings that we do
really hang them. I wish the several States would follow our example.
Pennsylvania, in particular, would experience many good effects from a
vigorous manly executive. Adieu.

                                  Your most obedient and humble servant,
                                  Gouv. Morris.

Col. Hamilton.




GOUV. MORRIS TO HAMILTON.


                                      Kingston, 24th May, 1777.

Dear Sir:

You certainly had no reason to complain of me, for not informing you
of the destruction of the stores at St. John’s. True it is, we had
a vague report of such a transaction; and we had also an account,
from private persons, that the report was confirmed at Albany: but
General Gates has never done us the honor to make us acquainted with
his intelligence upon that subject; and therefore I was not really
warranted to say any thing about it. Apropos, I shall lose two beaver
hats if our troops are not in possession of New-York by the first day
of July next. If the enemy expect reinforcements, prudence will dictate
to us to do something offensive as soon as possible. Would it not
be prudent to make several attacks at the same time? For instance,
about Hackensack, Bergen, or wherever else the enemy are in that
quarter: upon Brunswick, by way of Round Brook, Bonumtown, and from the
southward: upon Fort Independence in Westchester county, or against
Harlæm: and upon Long Island, by throwing over some of the eastern
troops. If only one should prove successful, it would give splendor to
our arms, and dismay the enemy. But our numbers, &c., &c., must govern
these things. Howe certainly cannot mean to come this way, unless he is
considerably reinforced. He will, unless he is to act on the defensive.
I hope that our Generals are very busy fortifying the passes in the
Highlands. I fear we shall destroy many men by it when the weather
grows warm. Much fatigue prevents that attention to cleanliness which
is essential to the health of soldiery. Soldiers should, in my opinion,
be as much exercised in the use of arms, and the various evolutions,
as is necessary to preserve their bodies in a state of strength and
elasticity. The rest of their time may be usefully employed in the care
of their clothes, and collecting refreshments. I seriously believe,
that if two armies of thirty thousand men each, were to take the field
in May, and the one be employed in building fortifications for three
months, which the other should storm at the expiration of that term;
the odds would be in favor of the assailants, that the campaign would
not cost them as many as the enemy. But a truce to idle speculation.
Be pleased to direct your next letter to Robert R. Livingston and
Christopher Tapin, Esqrs., as I shall not myself be in the way to
receive it. We have no news here but this, that the tories are much
humbled, and will, I believe, be more so.

                                                  Adieu. Yours,
                                                  Gouv. Morris.

Col. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.


                   Head Quarters, Smith’s Clove, July 22, 1777.

Dear Sir:

Your favor of the eighteenth, from Saratoga, reached me yesterday. Your
pronouncing Fort Edward, among the other forts, indefensible, surprises
me a little, as it is entirely contrary to the representations of
several gentlemen of judgment, who have had an opportunity of seeing
and considering its situation; by whom we have been taught to believe
that it would be an excellent post, at least for checking and retarding
Burgoyne’s progress. I agree with you that our principal strength in
the quarter you are, will be in the forests and natural strength of
the country, and in the want of forage, provisions, carriages, &c., in
which the enemy may easily be thrown, by taking away what there are of
those articles, which, you observe, have never been in great abundance.

I am doubtful whether Burgoyne will attempt to penetrate far, and
whether he will not content himself with harassing our back settlements
by parties assisted by the savages, who, it is to be feared, will
pretty generally be tempted, by the enemy’s late successes, to
confederate in hostilities against us.

This doubt arises from some appearances that indicate a southern
movement of General Howe’s army, which, if it should really happen,
will certainly be a barrier against any further impressions of
Burgoyne; for it cannot be supposed he would be rash enough to plunge
into the bosom of the country without an expectation of being met by
General Howe. Things must prove very adverse to us indeed, should he
make such an attempt and _not be ruined by it._ I confess, however,
that the appearances I allude to do not carry a full evidence in my
mind; because they are opposed by others of a contradictory kind;
and because I cannot conceive upon what principle of common sense,
or military propriety, Howe can be running away from Burgoyne to the
southward.

It is much to be wished he may, even though it should give him the
possession of Philadelphia, which by our remoteness from it, may
very well happen. In this case, we may not only, if we think proper,
retaliate, by aiming a stroke at New-York; but we may come upon him
with the greatest part of our collective force, to act against that
part which is under him. We shall then be certain that Burgoyne
cannot proceed, and that a small force of continental troops will be
sufficient for that partisan war which he must carry on the rest of the
campaign.

A small force will also be sufficient to garrison the posts in the
Highlands, and prevent any danger there; so that we shall be able
to bring nearly the whole of the continental army against Mr. Howe.
The advantages of this are obvious. Should he be satisfied with the
splendor of his acquisition, and shut himself up in Philadelphia, we
can ruin him by confinement. Should he leave a garrison there, and go
forward, we can either fall upon that or his main body, diminished
as it will be by such a measure, with our whole force. There will,
however, be many disagreeable consequences attending such an event;
amongst which, the foremost is, the _depreciation of our currency_,
which, from the importance in which Philadelphia is held, cannot fail
to ensue.

                                             I am, dear Sir,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             Alex. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO DR. KNOX.


* * * This event [the evacuation of Ticonderoga[1]], redounds very
little to our credit. For if the post was untenable, or required a
larger number of troops to defend it than could be spared for the
purpose, it ought long ago to have been foreseen and given up. Instead
of that, we have kept a large quantity of cannon in it, and have been
heaping up very valuable magazines of stores and provisions, that, in
the critical moment of defence, are abandoned and lost. This affair
will be attended with several evil consequences; for besides the
loss of our stores, which we cannot well afford, it opens a new and
easy door by which to penetrate the northern States. It will fix the
hitherto fluctuating disposition of the Indians in that quarter in
their favor, and expose the frontiers of the adjacent country to their
depredations. But though it is a misfortune we have reason to lament,
I dare say it will be regarded with you as much more important than
it really is, and as materially endangering the success of our cause,
which is by no means the case. Our opposition is at this time too well
matured, and has too great stability, to be shaken by an accident of
that kind. While we have a respectable army in the field, and resources
to feed, clothe, and arm them, we are safe. We have had a force
sufficient for the foregoing part of the campaign, to maintain such a
superiority over the main army of the enemy as effectually to hinder
them from attaining any of their purposes. And, to the northward,
with the reinforcements sent up to succor the retreating garrison of
Ticonderoga, and the militia flocking in from New England, I think
there is little doubt we have by this time a force adequate to give
Mr. Burgoyne a seasonable check. One good effect will result from the
misfortune, which is, that it will stimulate the eastern States to
greater exertions than they might otherwise make.

By our last advices, the enemy were in possession of all the country
between Ticonderoga and Fort George; and our army, nearly equal in
number to them, were about to take post somewhere between Fort Edward
and Saratoga.

The consequences of this northern affair will depend much upon the part
that Howe acts. If he were to co-operate with Burgoyne, it would demand
our utmost efforts to counteract them. But if he should go towards the
southward, all or most of the advantages of Burgoyne’s success will be
lost. He will either be obliged to content himself with the possession
of Ticonderoga, and the dependent fortresses, and with carrying on a
partisan war the rest of the campaign; or he must precipitate himself
into certain ruin, by attempting to advance into the country with a
very incompetent force. Appearances lead us to suppose that Howe is
fool enough to meditate a southern expedition; for he has now altered
his station at Staten Island, mentioned above, and has fallen down to
the Hook. Judging it morally certain that there would be a co-operation
of the two armies, we thought it expedient to march northerly; and had
accordingly reached within fourteen miles of New Windsor, the place
where we could cross the North River without danger or interruption.
But this new movement of the enemy’s fleet, has induced us to return
a few miles, and make a disposition for marching southerly. We shall,
however, be cautious how we proceed on that course, lest nothing more
than a feint is intended, to divert us from the real object.

If they go to the southward in earnest, they must have the capture
of Philadelphia in view; for there is no other inducement. We shall
endeavor to get there in time to oppose them; and shall have the
principal part of the continental force, and a large body of spirited
militia, many of them, from their services during the last campaign,
pretty well inured to arms, to make the opposition with. Yet I would
not have you to be much surprised if Philadelphia should fall; for the
enemy will doubtless go there with a determination to succeed at all
hazard; and we shall not be able to prevent them, without risking a
general action, the expediency of which will depend upon circumstances.
If the militia turn out with that zeal we have a right to expect, from
their conduct when the enemy made their last experiment in the Jersies,
and were supposed to be going to Philadelphia, we may do it without
much inconvenience. If they fall materially short of it, we shall
be obliged to confine ourselves to a skirmishing opposition, which
we cannot expect will be effectual. It may be asked, If, to avoid a
general engagement, we give up objects of the first importance, what is
to hinder the enemy from carrying every important point, and ruining
us? My answer is, that our hopes are not placed in any particular city
or spot of ground, but in the preserving a good army, furnished with
proper necessaries, to take advantage of favorable opportunities, and
waste and defeat the enemy by piecemeal. Every new post they take,
requires a new division of their forces, and enables us to strike with
our united force against a part of theirs: and such is their present
situation, that another Trenton affair will amount to a complete
victory on our part; for they are at too low an ebb to bear another
stroke of the kind. Perhaps, before I may have an opportunity of
sending this, facts will unfold what I am now endeavoring to anticipate
by conjecture.

You will expect some animadversions on the temper and views of the
French nation. I presume you are nearly as well acquainted with the
assistance they are giving us as I am, both by their intrigues in
foreign courts, and by supplies of every kind of warlike stores and
apparatus.

It does not admit of a doubt that they are interested to wish us
success; and their conduct plainly shows, they are willing to give us
every aid essential to our preservation. But it is natural they should
desire to do it with as much convenience to themselves as they can.
I apprehend they are not over fond of plunging themselves into a war
with England if they can avoid it, and still answer the end they have
to pursue: and, indeed, from the evident reluctance shown on the part
of the latter, to do any thing that may bring about such an event, it
becomes extremely difficult to draw her into it. The conclusion we may
make, is, that France will not wish to force England into a war, unless
she finds our affairs require it absolutely; and England will not enter
into one, till she is compelled to do it.

My best respects to all friends; and I beg you will believe me to be,
with unabated regard,

                                             Dear Sir,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             A. Hamilton.


[1] July 5, 1777.




HAMILTON TO PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.


                                                         Sept. 18, 1777.

Sir:

If Congress have not left Philadelphia, they ought to do it immediately
without fail; for the enemy have the means of throwing a party this
night into the city. I just now passed the Valley Ford--in doing which
a party of the enemy came down and fired upon us in the boat, by which
means I lost my horse--one man was killed, and another wounded. The
boats were abandoned, and will fall into their hands. I did all I could
to prevent this, but to no purpose.

                                        I have the honor to be,
                                        With much respect,
                                        Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                        A. Hamilton.

To Hon. John Hancock.




TO THE HONORABLE JOHN HANCOCK, PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.


                                 September 18, 1777, 9 o’clock at night.

Sir:

I did myself the honor to write you a hasty line this evening, giving
it as my opinion, that the city was no longer a place of safety for
you. I write you again, lest that letter should not get to hand. The
enemy are on the road to Swedes Ford, the main body about four miles
from it. They sent a party this evening to Daviser’s ferry, which
fired upon me and some others in crossing it, killed one man, wounded
another, and disabled my horse.

They came on so suddenly, that one boat was left adrift on the other
side, which will of course fall into their hands; and, by the help of
that, they will get possession of another, which was abandoned by those
who had the direction of it, and left afloat, in spite of every thing
that I could do to the contrary. These two boats will convey fifty men
across at a time, so that in a few hours they may throw over a large
party, perhaps sufficient to overmatch the militia who may be between
them and the city. This renders the situation of Congress extremely
precarious, if they are not on their guard: my apprehensions for them
are great, though it is not improbable they may not be realized. The
most cogent reasons oblige me to join the army this night, or I should
have waited upon you myself. I am in hopes our army will be up with the
enemy before they pass Schuylkill: if they are, something serious will
ensue.

                                                I have the honor to be,
                                                With much respect,
                                                Sir, your most obedient,
                                                A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.


                             Philadelphia, 22d September, 1777.

Sir:

I left camp last evening, and came to this city to superintend the
collection of blankets and clothing for the army. Mr. Lovell sends to
inform me there is an express going off to Congress; and I do myself
the honor to communicate a brief state of things when I left camp. The
enemy moved yesterday, from where they lay opposite to Valley Forge,
&c., higher up the river, on their old scheme of gaining our right. I
don’t know precisely where they halted; but our army was preparing to
move up also, to counteract them.

I am this morning told, they marched about twelve o’clock at night for
that purpose. The general opinion was, that the enemy would attempt
crossing this day: every appearance justified the supposition.

We had intelligence that the enemy had, the night before last,
surprised Generals Smallwood and Wayne, and consequently dispersed
them, after a small opposition. The loss, it is said, was not great:
and our troops were re-assembling fast at the Red Lion. This seems to
have been a bad look out, and is somewhat disconcerting.

By a letter from General McDougal, received this morning, it appears he
was, on the twentieth, in the morning, at Second River, just setting
out on his march toward Woodbridge. He is pressing forward with all
possible expedition. The troops were pretty well refreshed, and in good
spirits.

                                                   I have, &c.,
                                                   A. Hamilton.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


           Head Quarters, Philadelphia County, 30th Oct., 1777.

Dear Sir:

It having been judged expedient by the members of a council of war,
held yesterday, that one of the gentlemen of my family should be sent
to General Gates, in order to lay before him the state of this army,
and the situation of the enemy; and to point out to him the many happy
consequences that will accrue from an immediate reinforcement being
sent from the northern army; I have thought it proper to appoint you to
that duty, and desire that you will immediately set out for Albany; at
which place, or in the neighborhood, I imagine you will find General
Gates.

You are so fully acquainted with the principal points on which you
are sent, namely, the state of our army, and the situation of the
enemy, that I shall not enlarge on those heads. What you are chiefly
to attend to, is to point out, in the clearest and fullest manner, to
General Gates, the absolute necessity that there is for his detaching
a very considerable part of the army at present under his command, to
the reinforcement of this; a measure that will, in all probability,
reduce General Howe to the same situation in which General Burgoyne now
is, should he attempt to remain in Philadelphia without being able to
remove the obstructions in the Delaware, and open a free communication
with his shipping. The force which the members of the council of war
judge it safe and expedient to draw down at present, are the three New
Hampshire and fifteen Massachusetts regiments, with Lee’s and Jackson’s
two of the sixteen, additional. But it is more than probable that
General Gates may have detained part of those troops to the reduction
of Ticonderoga, should the enemy not have evacuated it; or to the
garrisoning it. If they should, in that case the reinforcement will
be according to circumstances; but, if possible, let it be made up to
the same number out of other corps. If, upon your meeting with General
Gates, you should find that he intends, in consequence of his success,
to employ the troops under his command upon some expedition, by the
prosecution of which the common cause will be more benefited than by
their being sent down to reinforce this army, it is not my wish to
give any interruption to the plan. But if he should have nothing more
in contemplation than those particular objects which I have mentioned
to you, and which it is unnecessary to commit to paper; in that case
you are to inform him, that it is my desire that the reinforcements
before mentioned, or such parts of them as can be safely spared, be
immediately put in motion to join the army.

I have understood that General Gates has already detached Nixon’s
and Glover’s brigades to join General Putnam; and General Dickinson
informs me, Sir Henry Clinton has come down the river with his whole
force: if this be a fact, you are to desire General Putnam to send the
two brigades forward with the greatest expedition, as there can be no
occasion for them there.

I expect you will meet Colonel Morgan’s corps upon their way down:
if you do, let them know how essential their services are to us; and
desire the Colonel or commanding officer, to hasten their march as much
as is consistent with the health of the men after their late fatigues.

                                                                   G. W.

P.S. I ordered the detachment belonging to General McDougal’s division
to come forward. If you meet them, direct those belonging to Greene’s,
Angel’s, Chandler’s, and Duryee’s regiments, not to cross Delaware, but
to proceed to Red Bank.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                        Fishkill, Nov. 2, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I lodged last night in the neighborhood of New Windsor. This morning
early I met Colonel Morgan with his corps, about a mile from it, in
march for head quarters. I told him the necessity of making all the
dispatch he could, so as not to fatigue his men too much, which he has
promised to do.

I understood from Colonel Morgan, that all the northern army were
marching down on both sides the river, and would, probably, be
to-morrow at New Windsor and this place; and that General Putnam had
held a council for the general disposition of them, in which it was
resolved to send you four thousand men, and to keep the rest on this
side the river. I came here in expectation that matters were in such
a train as to enable me to accomplish my errand without going any
further, unless it should be to hasten the troops that were on their
march: but on my arrival, I learned from Mr. Hughes, an Aid-de-Camp of
General Gates, that the following disposition of the northern army had
taken place.

General Patterson’s, Glover’s, and Nixon’s brigades, and Colonel
Warner’s mountain boys, to remain in and about Albany: barracks
building for them. General Poor’s brigade, marching down this side of
the river to join General Putnam, will be here probably to-morrow.
General Learned’s brigade, Morgan’s corps, Warner’s brigade of
Massachusetts militia, and some regiments of New-York militia, on their
march on the west side of the river.

I have directed General Putnam, in your name, to send forward, with
all dispatch, to join you, the two continental brigades, and Warner’s
militia brigade: this last is to serve till the latter end of this
month. Your instructions did not comprehend any militia: but as there
are certain accounts here, that most of the troops from New-York
are gone to reinforce General Howe; and as so large a proportion of
continental troops have been detained at Albany; I concluded you would
not disapprove of a measure calculated to strengthen you, though but
for a small time, and have ventured to adopt it on that presumption.

Being informed by General Putnam, that General Wynds, with seven
hundred Jersey militia, was at King’s Ferry, with intention to cross to
Peekskill, I prevailed upon him to relinquish that idea, and send off
an immediate order for them to march towards Red Bank. It is possible,
however, unless your Excellency supports this order by an application
from yourself, he may march his men home, instead of marching them to
the place he has been directed to repair to.

Neither Lee’s, Jackson’s regiments, nor the detachments belonging to
General McDougal’s division, have yet marched. I have urged their being
sent; and an order has been dispatched for their instantly proceeding.
Colonel Hughes is pressing some fresh horses for me. The moment they
are ready, I shall recross the river, in order to fall in with the
troops on the other side, and make all the haste I can to Albany, to
get the three brigades there sent forward.

Will your Excellency permit me to observe, that I have some doubts,
under present circumstances and appearances, of the propriety of
leaving the regiments proposed to be left in this quarter? But if my
doubts on this subject were stronger than they are, I am forbid, by the
sense of council, from interfering in the matter.

General Poor’s brigade is just arrived here: they will proceed to join
you with all expedition. So strongly am I impressed with the importance
of endeavoring to crush Mr. Howe, that I am apt to think it would
be advisable to draw off all the continental troops. Had this been
determined on, General Warner’s sixteen hundred militia might have been
left here.

                                I have the honor to be,
                                With the warmest esteem and respect,
                                Your Excellency’s most obedient servant,
                                A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                        Albany, November, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I arrived here yesterday at noon, and waited upon General Gates
immediately, on the business of my mission; but was sorry to find that
his ideas did not correspond with yours, for drawing off the number of
troops you directed. I used every argument in my power, to convince
him of the propriety of the measure; but he was inflexible in the
opinion, that two brigades, at least, of continental troops, should
remain in and near this place. His reasons were, that the intelligence
of Sir Henry Clinton’s having gone to join Howe, was not sufficiently
authenticated to put it out of doubt; that there was, therefore, a
possibility of his returning up the river, which might expose the
finest arsenal in America (as he calls the one here) to destruction,
should this place be left so bare of troops as I proposed; and that
the want of conveniencies, and the difficulty of the roads, would make
it impossible to remove artillery and stores for a considerable time;
that the New England States would be left open to the depredations
and ravages of the enemy; that it would put it out of his power to
enterprise any thing against Ticonderoga, which he thinks might be done
in the winter, and which he considers it of importance to undertake.

The force of these reasons did by no means strike me; and I did every
thing in my power to show they were unsubstantial: but all I could
effect, was to have one brigade dispatched, in addition to those
already marched. I found myself infinitely embarrassed, and was at a
loss how to act. I felt the importance of strengthening you as much as
possible: but, on the other hand, I found insuperable inconveniences,
in acting diametrically opposite to the opinion of a gentleman, whose
successes have raised him to the highest importance. General Gates has
won the entire confidence of the Eastern States. If disposed to do it,
by addressing himself to the prejudices of the people, he would find
no difficulty to render a measure odious, which it might be said,
with plausibility enough to be believed, was calculated to expose them
to unnecessary dangers, notwithstanding their exertions, during the
campaign, had given them the fullest title to repose and security.
General Gates has influence and interest elsewhere: he might use it,
if he pleased, to discredit the measure there also. On the whole, it
appeared to me dangerous, to insist on sending more troops from hence,
while General Gates appeared so warmly opposed to it. Should any
accident, or inconvenience, happen in consequence of it, there would be
too fair a pretext for censure: and many people are too well disposed
to lay hold of it. At any rate, it might be considered as using him
ill, to take a step so contrary to his judgment, in a case of this
nature. These considerations, and others which I shall be more explicit
in when I have the pleasure of seeing you, determined me not to insist
upon sending either of the other brigades remaining here. I am afraid
what I have done, may not meet with your approbation, as not being
perhaps fully warranted by your instructions: but I ventured to do what
I thought right, hoping that, at least, the goodness of my intention
will excuse the error of my judgment.

I was induced to this relaxation the more readily, as I had directed
to be sent on, two thousand militia, which were not expected by you;
and a thousand continental troops out of those proposed to be left
with General Putnam, which I have written to him, since I found how
matters were circumstanced here, to forward to you with all dispatch.
I did this for several reasons: because your reinforcement would be
more expeditious from that place than from this: because two thousand
continental troops at Peekskill will not be wanted in its present
circumstances; especially as it was really necessary to have a body
of continental troops at this place, for the security of the valuable
stores here: and I should not, if I had my wish, think it expedient to
draw off more than two of the three brigades now here. This being the
case, one of the ends you proposed to be answered, by leaving the ten
regiments with General Putnam, will be equally answered by the troops
here; I mean that of covering and fortifying the Eastern States: and
one thousand continental troops in addition to the militia collected,
and that may be collected, here, will be sufficient, in the Highlands,
for covering the country down that way, and carrying on the works
necessary to be raised for the defence of the river.

The troops gone, and going, to reinforce you, are near five thousand
rank and file, continental troops; and two thousand five hundred
Massachusetts and New Hampshire militia. These and the seven hundred
Jersey militia, will be a larger reinforcement than you expected,
though not quite an equal number of continental troops; nor exactly
in the way directed. General Lincoln tells me, the militia are very
excellent; and though their time will be out by the last of this month,
you will be able, if you think proper, to order the troops still
remaining here, to join you by the time their term of service expires.

I cannot forbear being uneasy, lest my conduct should prove displeasing
to you: but I have done what, considering all circumstances, appeared
to me most eligible and prudent.

Vessels are preparing to carry the brigade to New Windsor, which will
embark this evening. I shall, this afternoon, set out on my return to
camp; and on my way, shall endeavor to hasten the troops forward.

                                          I have the honor to be,
                                          With great esteem and respect,
                                          Your Excellency’s most ob’t,
                                          Alex. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO GATES.


                                      Albany, November 5, 1777.

Sir:

By inquiry, I have learned that General Patterson’s brigade, which is
the one you propose to send, is by far the weakest of the three now
here, and does not consist of more than about six hundred rank and file
fit for duty. It is true, that there is a militia regiment with it of
about two hundred; but the time of service for which this regiment is
engaged, is so near expiring, that it would be past by the time the
men could arrive at their destination.

Under these circumstances, I cannot consider it either as compatible
with the good of the service, or my instructions from His Excellency
General Washington, to consent that that brigade be selected from the
three to go to him; but I am under the necessity of desiring, by virtue
of my orders from him, that one of the others be substituted instead of
this; either General Nixon’s, or General Glover’s; and that you will be
pleased to give immediate orders for its embarkation.

Knowing that General Washington wished me to pay the greatest deference
to your judgment, I ventured so far to deviate from the instructions
he gave me, as to consent, in compliance with your opinion, that two
brigades should remain here instead of one. At the same time permit me
to observe, that I am not myself sensible of the expediency of keeping
more than one, with the detached regiments in the neighborhood of this
place; and that my ideas coincide with those gentlemen whom I have
consulted on the occasion, whose judgment I have much more reliance
upon than on my own, and who must be supposed to have a thorough
knowledge of all the circumstances. Their opinion is, that one brigade,
and the regiments before mentioned, would amply answer the purposes of
this post. When I preferred your opinion to other considerations, I did
not imagine you would pitch upon a brigade little more than half as
large as the others: and finding this to be the case, I indispensably
owe it to my duty, to desire, in His Excellency’s name, that another
may go instead of the one intended, and without loss of time. As it may
be conducive to dispatch, to send Glover’s brigade, if agreeable to
you, you will give orders accordingly.

                                        I have the honor to be,
                                        With real respect and esteem,
                                        Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                        A. Hamilton.

General Gates.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                              New Windsor, November 10th, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I arrived here last night from Albany. Having given General Gates a
little time to recollect himself, I renewed my remonstrances on the
necessity and propriety of sending you more than one brigade of the
three he had detained with him; and finally prevailed upon him to give
orders for Glover’s in addition to Patterson’s brigade, to march this
way.

As it was thought conducive to expedition, to send the troops by water,
as far as it could be done, I procured all the vessels that could
be had at Albany, fit for the purpose; but could not get more than
sufficient to take Patterson’s brigade. It was embarked the seventh
instant; but the wind has been contrary: they must probably be here
to-day. General Glover’s brigade marched at the same time, on the east
side of the river, the roads being much better than on this side. I am
at this moment informed, that one sloop, with a part of Patterson’s,
has arrived, and that the others are in sight. They will immediately
proceed, by water, to King’s Ferry, and thence take the shortest route.

I am pained beyond expression to inform your Excellency, that on my
arrival here, I find every thing has been neglected and deranged by
General Putnam; and that the two brigades, Poor’s and Learned’s, still
remain here and on the other side of the river at Fishkill. Colonel
Warner’s militia, I am told, have been drawn to Peekskill, to aid in
an expedition against New-York, which, it seems, is, at this time, the
hobby-horse with General Putnam. Not the least attention has been paid
to my order, in your name, for a detachment of one thousand men from
the troops hitherto stationed at this post. Every thing is sacrificed
to the whim of taking New-York.

The two brigades of Poor and Learned, it appears, would not march for
want of money and necessaries; several of the regiments having received
no pay for six or eight months past. There has been a high mutiny among
the former on this account, in which a captain killed a man, and was
himself shot by his comrade. These difficulties, for want of proper
management, have stopped the troops from proceeding. Governor Clinton
has been the only man who has done any thing towards removing them; but
for want of General Putnam’s co-operation, has not been able to effect
it. He has only been able to prevail with Learned’s brigade, to agree
to march to Goshen; in hopes, by getting them once on the go, to induce
them to continue their march. On coming here, I immediately sent for
Colonel Bailey, who now commands Learned’s brigade, and persuaded him
to engage to carry the brigade on to head quarters as fast as possible.
This he expects to effect by means of five or six thousand dollars,
which Governor Clinton was kind enough to borrow for me, and which
Colonel Bailey thinks will keep the men in good humor till they join
you. They marched this morning towards Goshen.

I shall, as soon as possible, see General Poor, and do every thing in
my power to get him along; and hope I shall be able to succeed.

The plan I before laid, having been totally deranged, a new one has
become necessary. It is now too late to send Warner’s militia; by the
time they reached you, their term of service would be out. The motive
for sending them, which was to give you a speedy reinforcement, has, by
the past delay, been superseded.

By Governor Clinton’s advice, I have sent an order, in the most
emphatical terms, to General Putnam, immediately to dispatch all the
continental troops under him to your assistance; and to detain the
militia instead of them.

My opinion is, that the only present use for troops in this quarter,
is, to protect the country from the depredations of little plundering
parties; and for carrying on the works necessary for the defence of the
river. Nothing more ought to be thought of. ’Tis only wasting time, and
misapplying men, to employ them in a suicidal parade against New-York:
for in this it will undoubtedly terminate. New-York is no object, if
it could be taken: and to take it, would require more men than could
be spared from more substantial purposes. Governor Clinton’s ideas
coincide with mine. He thinks that there is no need of more continental
troops here, than a few to give a spur to the militia in working upon
the fortifications. In pursuance of this I have given the directions
before mentioned. If General Putnam attends to them, the troops under
him may be with you nearly as early as any of the others (though he
has, unluckily, marched them down to Tarrytown); and General Glover’s
brigade, when it gets up, will be more than sufficient to answer the
true end of this post.

If your Excellency agrees with me in opinion, it will be well to send
instant directions to General Putnam, to pursue the object I have
mentioned: for I doubt whether he will attend to any thing I shall say,
notwithstanding it comes in the shape of a positive order. I fear,
unless you interpose, the works here will go on so feebly, for want of
men, that they will not be completed in time: whereas, it appears to me
of the greatest importance they should be pushed with the utmost vigor.
Governor Clinton will do every thing in his power. I wish General
Putnam was recalled from the command of this post, and Governor Clinton
would accept it: the blunders and caprices of the former are endless.
Believe me, Sir, nobody can be more impressed with the importance of
forwarding the reinforcements coming to you, with all speed; nor could
any body have endeavored to promote it more than I have done: but the
_ignorance_ of some, and the _design_ of others, have been almost
insuperable obstacles. I am very unwell; but I shall not spare myself
to get things immediately in a proper train; and for that purpose
intend, unless I receive other orders from you, to continue with the
troops in the progress of their march. As soon as I get General Poor’s
brigade in march, I shall proceed to General Putnam’s at Peekskill.

                                                I have, &c.,
                                                Alex. Hamilton.

His Excellency, General Washington.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                New Windsor, November 12, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I have been detained here these two days by a fever, and violent
rheumatic pains throughout my body. This has prevented my being
active, in person, for promoting the purposes of my errand; but I have
taken every other method in my power, in which Governor Clinton has
obligingly given me all the aid he could. In answer to my pressing
application to General Poor, for the immediate marching of his brigade,
I was told they were under an operation for the itch; which made it
impossible for them to proceed till the effects of it were over. By
a letter, however, of yesterday, General Poor informs me, he would
certainly march this morning. I must do him the justice to say, he
appears solicitous to join you; and that I believe the past delay is
not owing to any fault of his, but is wholly chargeable on General
Putnam. Indeed, Sir, I owe it to the service to say, that every part
of this gentleman’s conduct is marked with blunder and negligence, and
gives general disgust.

Parsons’ brigade will join you, I hope, in five or six days from this.
Learned’s may do the same. Poor’s will, I am persuaded, make all the
haste they can for the future. And Glover’s may be expected at Fishkill
to-night; whence they will be pressed forward as fast as I can have any
influence to make them go. But I am sorry to say, the disposition for
marching, in the officers and men in general, of these troops, does not
keep pace with my wishes, or the exigency of the occasion. They have,
unfortunately, imbibed an idea, that they have done their part of the
business of the campaign, and are now entitled to repose. This, and the
want of pay, make them averse to a long march at this advanced season.

* * * In a letter from General Putnam, just now received by Governor
Clinton, he appears to have been, the 10th instant, at King’s Street,
at the White Plains. I have had no answer to my last applications. The
enemy appear to have stripped New-York very bare. The people there,
that is, the tories, are in a great fright: this adds to my anxiety,
that the reinforcements from this quarter to you are not in greater
forwardness and more considerable.

I have written to General Gates, informing him of the accounts of the
situation of New-York with respect to troops, and the probability of
the force gone to Howe being greater than was at first expected; to
try if this will not _extort_ from him a further reinforcement. I
don’t, however, expect much from him; as he pretends to have in view an
expedition against Ticonderoga, to be undertaken in the winter: and he
knows that, under the sanction of this idea, calculated to catch the
eastern people, he may, without censure, retain the troops. And as I
shall be under a necessity of speaking plainly to your Excellency, when
I have the pleasure of seeing you, I shall not hesitate to say, I doubt
whether you would have had a man from the northern army, if the whole
could have been kept at Albany with any decency. Perhaps you will think
me blamable in not having exercised the powers you gave me, and given a
positive order. Perhaps I have been so: but, deliberately weighing all
circumstances, I did not, and do not, think it advisable to do it.

                                    I have the honor to be,
                                    With unfeigned esteem and regard,
                                    Your Excellency’s most ob’t servant,
                                    A. Hamilton.

His Excellency General Washington.




HAMILTON TO GATES.


                                   Fishkill, November 12, 1777.

Sir:

Ever since my arrival in this quarter, I have been endeavoring to
collect the best idea I could of the state of things in New-York, in
order the better to form a judgment of the probable reinforcement gone
to General Howe. On the whole, this is a fact well ascertained, that
New-York has been stripped as bare as possible: that in consequence of
this, the few troops there, and the inhabitants, are under so strong
apprehensions of an attack, as almost to amount to a _panic_; that to
supply the deficiency of men, every effort is making to excite the
citizens to arms for the defence of the city. For this purpose, the
public papers are full of addresses to them, that plainly speak the
apprehensions prevailing on the occasion.

Hence I infer, that a formidable force is gone to General Howe. The
calculations made by those who have had the best opportunities of
judging, carry the number from six to seven thousand. If so, the number
gone, and going, to General Washington, is far inferior; five thousand
at the utmost. The militia were all detained by General Putnam till it
became too late to send them.

The state of things I gave you when I had the pleasure of seeing you,
was, to the best of my knowledge, sacredly true. I give you the present
information, that you may decide, whether any further succor can with
propriety come from you.

The fleet, with the troops on board, sailed out of the Hook on the
fifth instant. This circumstance demonstrates, beyond the possibility
of doubt, that it is General Howe’s fixed intention to endeavor to hold
Philadelphia at all hazards; and removes all danger of any further
operations up the North River this winter. Otherwise, Sir Henry
Clinton’s movement, at this advanced season, is altogether inexplicable.

If you can with propriety afford any further assistance, the most
expeditious manner of conveying it will be to acquaint General Putnam
of it, that he may send on the troops with him, to be replaced by
them. You, Sir, best know the uses to which the troops with you are
to be applied, and will determine accordingly. I am certain it is not
His Excellency’s wish to frustrate any plan you may have in view for
the benefit of the service, so far as it can possibly be avoided,
consistent with a due attention to more important objects.

                                       I am, with respect, Sir,
                                       Your most obedient servant,
                                       Alex. Hamilton, A. D. C.

To General Gates.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

                                      Peekskill, Nov. 15, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I arrived at this place last night, and unfortunately find myself
unable to proceed any further. Imagining I had gotten the better of my
complaint, which confined me at Governor Clinton’s, and anxious to be
about attending to the march of the troops, the day before yesterday I
crossed the ferry, in order to fall in with General Glover’s brigade,
which was on its march from Poughkeepsie to Fishkill. I did not,
however, see it myself, but received a letter from Colonel Shepherd,
who commands the frigate, informing me he would be last night at
Fishkill, and this night at King’s ferry. Wagons, &c., are provided
on the other side for his accommodation; so that there need be no
delay but what is voluntary; and I believe Colonel Shepherd is as
well disposed as could be wished to hasten his march. General Poor’s
brigade crossed the ferry the day before yesterday. Two York regiments,
Courtland’s and Livingston’s, are with them: they were unwilling to be
separated from the brigade, and the brigade from them. General Putnam
was unwilling to keep them with him: and if he had consented to do it,
the regiments to displace them would not join you six days as soon as
these. The troops now remaining with General Putnam will amount to
about the number you intended, though they are not exactly the same.
He has detached Colonel Charles Webb’s regiment to you. He _says_ the
troops with him are not in a condition to march, being destitute of
shoes, stockings, and other necessaries: but I believe the true reasons
of his being unwilling to pursue the mode pointed out by you, were his
aversion to the York troops, and his desire to retain General Parsons
with him.

                                     I am, with much respect and esteem,
                                     Your Excellency’s most ob’t serv’t,
                                     A. Hamilton.

To General Washington.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                              Head-Quarters, November 15, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I have duly received your several favors, from the time you left me to
that of the twelfth instant. I approve entirely of all the steps you
have taken; and have only to wish, that the exertions of those you have
had to deal with, had kept pace with your zeal and good intentions. I
hope your health will, before this, have permitted you to push on the
rear of the whole reinforcement beyond New Windsor. Some of the enemy’s
ships have arrived in the Delaware; but how many have troops on board,
I cannot exactly ascertain. The enemy have lately damaged Fort Miflin
considerably: but our people keep possession, and seem determined to do
so to the last extremity. Our loss in men has been but small. Captain
Treat is unfortunately among the killed. I wish you a safe return,

                                             And am, dear Sir,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             G. Washington.

Lt. Col. Hamilton.




HUGH KNOX TO HAMILTON.


                                  St. Croix, December 10, 1777.

Dear Hamilton:

The fine, impartial, laconic, and highly descriptive account you
favored me with of the last year’s campaign, in your letter of March
last, excited in me, and many of your other friends here, an earnest
desire of further accounts from your pen, of the succeeding fortunes
of the Great American War: a war which will, one day, shine more
illustriously in the historic page, than any which has happened since
the times of Nimrod and the Giants; and deservedly, on account of
the goodness of the cause, the grandeur of the object, the eclat of
the Generals, the bravery of the troops--and (alas! that I should be
obliged to add) of the cruelty and ferocity which has marked the route
of your enemies; and the tons of brothers’ blood which have been shed
on the unhappy occasion!

I wrote two answers to your obliging letter, both of which I hope have
reached you; and in both of which I have urged it upon you, to make and
collect such memoirs as the urgency of your affairs will permit you;
which may furnish materials for an accurate history of the war, when
you shall have leisure to fill up and embellish such a skeleton, with
all that elegance and dignity of which your fine pen is capable.

The honorable post you hold under the GREAT General Washington, and so
near his person, will give you a peculiar advantage for delineating
his character, both in his amiable private virtues, and military
abilities. And depend upon it, the very minutiæ of that incomparable
man will be read with avidity by posterity. You know me too well, I
hope, to suspect me of superstition; yet I feel myself, at times,
under a strong impulse to _prophesy_, that _Washington_ was born for
the deliverance of America--that that Providence who has raised and
trained him up for that very purpose, will watch over his _sacred_ life
with a paternal and solicitous care; will shield his head in every
day of battle--_will_ give him to see America _free_, _flourishing_,
and _happy_--and _will_ adorn his fame, among latest posterity, with
a Garland of Laurel, more verdant, blooming, and enviable, than ever
adorned the brow of a _Marlborough_!

The bearer of this line (if he should be indeed so fortunate as to put
it into your hand) is our worthy friend, Mr. Cornelius Durant, who is
possessed of an ardent desire of having the honor of a short interview
with General Washington; principally, that he may have it to say, that
he has seen and spoken to _the greatest man of this Age_: and, indeed,
considering Mr. Durant’s personal worth; his uncommon zeal for, and
attachment to, the American cause; the losses he has sustained in
attempting to assist her; and his extraordinary admiration of, and love
to, the General’s character and person; few men more richly merit this
indulgence. If you still exist, and exist near the General’s person
(and I have not yet seen your name among the lists of the slain or the
disgraced), you can easily procure him this honor--and I trust you will.

We are now blessed with, and certified of, the glorious news of
Burgoyne’s surrender to the immortal Gates; another bright
star in the Constellation of American Heroes: and we are momently
expecting to hear, that General Washington has done something like
the same by General Howe! But we yet tremble in suspense--and it is
indeed a _painful one_. Probably before this letter goes, we shall hear
more of the matter. Our general accounts are favorable: and while the
_Chevaux de frize_ are defended, we have no fears about Philadelphia.
May this campaign decide the matter!

By the time this reaches you, you will be (if you are at all) in winter
quarters; and perhaps may be at leisure to write me a half folio, of
which Mr. Durant will take care to write me duplicates or triplicates,
for fear of miscarriage.

A piece of mine, entitled “An Address to America, by a friend in a
foreign government,” has been sent to the Congress for publication
(if approved). I know not yet its fate. It is, at least, an honestly
designed and animating piece, but written incorrectly, and in a hurry.
If you have seen it, pray give me your sentiments about it; but let it
be on a loose paper inclosed in your letter; for the knowledge of my
being the author must be a profound secret here.

My wishes are, that the God of Armies may defend and protect you,
and cause you happily to survive, and to hand down to posterity the
present important scenes. Numbers here esteem you, and would join me in
declaring themselves, as I do,

                              Dear Hamilton,
                              Your ever affectionate friend and servant,
                              Hugh Knox.




CLINTON TO HAMILTON.


                             Poughkeepsie, 28th December, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I was favored with the receipt of your letter of the 22d instant,
some days since, and returned a short answer to it by the express who
brought it; but as I have reason to believe you had left Peekskill
before he got there, I conclude my letter has not been received. I
have not a doubt but that there have been such unjust and dishonorable
practices committed on the inhabitants as you mention; nor have I
reason to believe they were without the knowledge of the commanding
officer of the Department. Complaints have been exhibited to him of
cattle, the property of the inhabitants of this State, living near
Col. Robinson’s, being drove off by parties of the continental troops,
and sold at vendue in New England, without any account being rendered
to the proprietors; and, if I am rightly informed, an officer with
a party, took sundry articles from Robinson’s, sent them off and
sold them in like manner in Connecticut, and has not accounted with
the States for the proceeds. Of this I informed General Putnam, and
desired that an inquiry might be made into the conduct of the officer
commanding the party, to which I was more particularly induced, as
I found he had given an order on the Quarter-Master General for the
payment of the teams employed in carrying off those effects; but I have
reason to believe he has had no regard to my request. Of this I am
fully convinced, that the soldiery claim as lawful prize every thing
they take within the enemy’s lines, though the property of our best
friends, and whatever is taken beyond our advanced posts, by a generous
construction, comes within the above predicament. On this principle
the several articles taken at and near Robinson’s were sold because
the enemy’s shipping were then in the river near that place; and on
the same principle indiscriminate plunder might have taken place on
both sides of the river as high up as the manor of Livingston. Little
good can be expected of an army whose interest it is to suffer a
country to be abandoned to the enemy, thereby to justify plundering the
inhabitants. Perhaps, and I don’t know that it would be uncharitable to
suppose, that it is this trade that makes some people so very fond of
little expeditions.

I have long thought to ascertain these facts, and seek redress not only
for the parties immediately injured, but the public; but my time has
been so fully employed of late about other matters that I have been
obliged to neglect it.

       *       *       *       *       *

May I expect a line from you whenever you have leisure; be assured
it will always be most kindly received, though perhaps not quite so
punctually answered by

                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             Geo. Clinton.

My respects to Capt. Gibbs and young Livingston.




HAMILTON TO WILLIAM DUER, M. C.


                                           Head-Quarters, 1778.

Dear Sir:

I take the liberty to trouble you with a few hints on a matter of
some importance. Baron Steuben, who will be the bearer of this, waits
on Congress to have his office[2] arranged upon some decisive and
permanent footing. It will not be amiss to be on your guard. The Baron
is a gentleman for whom I have a particular esteem; and whose zeal,
intelligence, and success, the consequence of both, entitle him to the
greatest credit. But I am apprehensive, with all his good qualities, a
fondness for power and importance, natural to every man, may lead him
to wish for more extensive prerogatives in his department than it will
be for the good of the service to grant. I should be sorry to excite
any prejudice against him on this account: perhaps I may be mistaken
in my conjecture. The caution I give will do no harm if I am: if I
am not, it maybe useful. In either case, the Baron deserves to be
considered as a valuable man, and treated with all the deference which
good policy will warrant.

On the first institution of this office, the General allowed him to
exercise more ample powers than would be proper for a continuance. They
were necessary in the commencement, to put things in a train with a
degree of dispatch which the exigency of our affairs required: but it
has been necessary to restrain them, even earlier than was intended.
The novelty of the office excited questions about its boundaries; the
extent of its operations alarmed the officers of every rank for their
own rights. Their jealousies and discontents were rising fast to a
height that threatened to overturn the whole plan. It became necessary
to apply a remedy. The General has delineated the functions of the
Inspectorship in general orders, a copy of which will be sent to
Congress. The plan is good, and satisfactory to the army in general.

It may be improved, but it will be unsafe to deviate essentially from
it. It is of course the General’s intention, that whatever regulations
are adopted by him, should undergo the revision, and receive the
sanction, of Congress: but it is indispensable, in the present state
of our army, that he should have the power, from time to time, to
introduce and authorize the reformations necessary in our system. It is
a work which must be done by occasional and gradual steps; and ought
to be intrusted to a person on the spot, who is thoroughly acquainted
with all our defects, and has judgment sufficient to adopt the
progressive remedies they require. The plan established by Congress, on
a report of the Board of War when Conway was appointed, appears to me
exceptionable in many respects. It makes the Inspector independent of
the Commander-in-chief; confers powers which would produce universal
opposition in the army; and, by making the previous concurrence of
the Board of War requisite to the introduction of every regulation
which should be found necessary, opens such a continual source of
delay as would defeat the usefulness of the institution. Let the
Commander-in-chief introduce, and the legislature afterwards ratify,
or reject, as they shall think proper. Perhaps you will not differ much
from me, when I suppose, that so far as relates to the Board of War,
the former scheme was a _brat of faction_, and therefore ought to be
renounced.

There is one thing which the Baron has much at heart, which, in good
policy, he can by no means be indulged in: it is the power of enforcing
that part of discipline which we understand by subordination, or an
obedience to orders. This power can only be properly lodged with the
Commander-in-chief, and would inflame the whole army if put into other
hands. Each Captain is vested with it in his company; each Colonel
in his regiment: each General in his particular command: and the
Commander-in-chief in the whole.

When I began this letter, I did not intend to meddle with any other
subject than the Inspectorship; but one just comes into my head which
appears to me of no small importance. The goodness, or force, of an
army, depends as much, perhaps more, on the composition of the corps
which form it, as on its collective number. The composition is good or
bad, not only according to the quality of the men, but in proportion to
the completeness or incompleteness of a corps in respect to numbers. A
regiment, for instance, with a full complement of officers, and fifty
or sixty men, is not half so good as a company with the same number of
men. A Colonel will look upon such a command as unworthy his ambition,
and will neglect and despise it: a Captain would pride himself in it,
and take all the pains in his power to bring it to perfection. In one
case we shall see a total relaxation of discipline, and negligence
of every thing that constitutes military excellence: in the other,
there will be attention, energy, and every thing that can be wished.
Opinion, whether well or ill-founded, is the governing principle of
human affairs. A corps much below its establishment, comparing what it
is with what it ought to be, loses all confidence in itself; and the
whole army loses that confidence and emulation which are essential to
success. These, and a thousand other things that will occur to you,
make it evident, that the most important advantages attend the having
complete corps, and proportional disadvantages the reverse. Ten
thousand men, distributed into twenty imperfect regiments, will not
have the efficiency of the same number in half the number of regiments.
The fact is, with respect to the American army, that the want of
discipline, and other defects we labor under, are as much owing to the
skeleton state of our regiments as to any other cause. What then?

Have we any prospect of filling our regiments? My opinion is, that we
have nearly arrived to our _ne plus ultra_. If so, we ought to reduce
the number of corps, and give them that substance and consistency
which they want, by incorporating them together, so as to bring them
near their establishment. By this measure the army would be infinitely
improved; and the State would be saved the expense of maintaining a
number of superfluous officers.

In the present condition of our regiments, they are incapable even of
performing their common exercises without joining two or more together:
an expedient reluctantly submitted to by those officers who see
themselves made second in command of a battalion, instead of first, as
their commission imports; which happens to every younger Colonel whose
regiment is united with that of an elder.

What would be the inconveniencies, while the officers who remain in
command, and who might be selected from the others on account of
superior merit, would applaud themselves in the preference given them,
and rejoice at a change which confers such additional consequence on
themselves?

Those who should be excluded by the measure, would return home
discontented, and make a noise, which would soon subside and be
forgotten among matters of greater moment. To quiet them still more
effectually, if it should be thought necessary, they might be put upon
half-pay for a certain time.

If, on considering this matter, you should agree with me in sentiment,
it were to be wished the scheme could be immediately adopted, while the
arrangement now in hand is still unexecuted. If it is made, it will be
rather inconvenient, immediately after, to unhinge and throw the whole
system again afloat. When you determined on your last arrangement,
you did not know what success the different States might have had in
draughting and recruiting. It would then have been improper to reduce
the number of corps, as proposed. We have now seen their success: we
have no prospect of seeing the regiments filled; we should reduce them.

                                        Believe me to be,
                                        With great esteem and regard,
                                        Dear Sir, your obedient servant,
                                        A. Hamilton.


[2] Inspector-General of the Army.




HAMILTON TO GEN. SULLIVAN.


                                           Head-Quarters, 1778.

Sir:

His Excellency has received your two last favors to-day. In the first
you hint the want of a reinforcement, but as the intention of your body
is chiefly for observation and skirmishing, and not to make any serious
stands, it is the less necessary it should be powerful in numbers. It
will, however, depend upon circumstances how far it will be expedient
to reinforce you; and as soon as any thing can be determined from them,
you shall have whatever addition of strength you may stand in need of.

The information contained in your last, of the enemy’s being encamped
on the road leading from New Brunswick to Princeton, about the Third
Mile Run, is not well founded. We have had parties and officers
reconnoitring as far as the Mile Run, and there is no sign of an
encampment. They seem to be taking their old position with their right
at Amboy, their left at Brunswick; but how long they will remain
so it is hard to tell. His Excellency desires you will engage some
trusty person at South Amboy, on whom you can depend for faithful and
early intelligence of the appearance of shipping in the river, or any
preparations for a movement by water, that we may be in time prepared
to counteract them.

                                             I am, with regard, Sir,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             A. Hamilton.




JAY TO HAMILTON.


                                         Albany, 8th May, 1778.

Dear Sir:

An opinion of your benevolence leads me to address this letter to
you. Accident has introduced me to Monsieur Lewis de Caleron. We
happen to lodge in the same house. His modesty and decent manners made
an impression upon me, and induced me to make some inquiries into
his history and character. The gentlemen of this place say handsome
things of him. He is the son of a Major General who fell last war
at Ticonderoga. The family is still in Canada, and one of the most
respectable in that country. He was sent to France when five years old,
and there educated. He came out with some French troops to Martinico,
and by their General, as well as Mr. Bingham, was recommended to
Congress. They gave him a brevet for a Captain’s commission. He served
last campaign as a volunteer, first with General Furmoy, and afterwards
with Colonel Morgan. To me he appears to have been neglected. It seems
he did not descend to the adulation lately fashionable, and perhaps
acceptable, in his department. While effrontery and arrogance, even
in our virtuous and enlightened days, are giving rank and importance
to men whom wisdom would have left in obscurity, I am persuaded you
will be happy in an opportunity of exploring, as well as cherishing,
modest merit. I think M. De Caleron is not without it, and under this
impression I recommend him to your notice as a probationer.

Tell me in some future letter whether he deserves the favorable opinion
I am inclined to entertain of him.

                                   I am, dear Sir,
                                   Very sincerely, and with much esteem,
                                   Your obedient servant,
                                   John Jay.

Lt. Col. Hamilton.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                 Head-Quarters, 4th June, 1778.

Sir:

Mr. Loring having been sent by Sir Henry Clinton to meet Mr. Boudinot,
or any other person appointed by me for the purpose of effecting an
exchange of prisoners. I have therefore to desire you (Mr. Boudinot
being absent from camp) to hear any proposals Mr. Loring may have to
offer on this subject; and to do definitively whatever may be necessary
towards the execution of a general exchange of prisoners. And I hereby
assure you that your proceedings in this instance will be ratified by
me.

                                    I am, Sir, your very humble servant,
                                    G. Washington.

Lieut. Col. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE.


                                                        25th June, 1778.

Sir:

We find, on our arrival here, that the intelligence received on the
road is true. The enemy have all filed off from Allen Town, on the
Monmouth road. Their rear is said to be a mile westward of Lawrence
Taylor’s tavern, six miles from Allen Town. General Maxwell is at
Hyde’s Town, about three miles from this place. General Dickinson is
said to be on the enemy’s right flank; but where, cannot be told. We
can hear nothing certain of General Scott; but, from circumstances,
he is probably at Allen Town. We shall, agreeably to your request,
consider and appoint some proper place of rendezvous for the union of
our force, which we shall communicate to Generals Maxwell and Scott,
and to yourself. In the mean time, I would recommend to you to move
toward this place as soon as the convenience of your men will permit.
I am told that Colonel Morgan is on the enemy’s right flank. We had a
slight skirmish with their rear this forenoon, at Robert Montgomery’s,
on the Monmouth road, leading from Allen Town. We shall see General
Maxwell immediately, and you will hear from us again. Send this to the
General after reading it.

                                                I am your ob’t serv’t,
                                                Alex. Hamilton.

                Doctor Stile’s House, Cranbury Town, 9 o’clock.

We are just informed that General Scott passed by Hooper’s tavern, five
miles from Allen Town, this afternoon at five o’clock.

M. De Lafayette.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                      {Robin’s Tavern, 8 miles from Allen Town,
                      {12 o’clock, June 26, 1778.

Sir:

We have halted the troops at this place. The enemy, by our last
reports, were four miles from this (that is, their rear), and had
passed the road which turns off toward South Amboy, which determines
their route toward Shrewsbury. Our reason for halting, is the extreme
distress of the troops for want of provisions. General Wayne’s
detachment is almost starving, and seems both unwilling and unable to
march further till they are supplied. If we do not receive an immediate
supply, the whole purpose of our detachment must be frustrated.

This morning we missed doing any thing, from a deficiency of
intelligence. On my arrival at Cranbury yester-evening, I proceeded,
by desire of the Marquis, immediately to Hyde’s Town and Allen Town,
to take measures for co-operating with the different parts of the
detachment, and to find what was doing to procure intelligence. I found
every precaution was neglected; no horse was near the enemy, nor could
be heard of till late in the morning: so that before we could send out
parties and get the necessary information, they were in full march: and
as they have marched pretty expeditiously, we should not be able to
come up with them during the march of the day, if we did not suffer the
impediment we do, on the score of provisions. We are entirely at a loss
where the army is, which is no inconsiderable check to our enterprise.
If the army is wholly out of supporting distance, we risk the total
loss of the detachment in making an attack.

If the army will countenance us, we may do something clever. We feel
our personal honor, as well as the honor of the army, and the good of
the service, interested; and are heartily desirous to attempt whatever
the disposition of our men will second, and prudence authorize. It is
evident the enemy wish to avoid, not to engage us.

Desertions, I imagine, have been pretty considerable to-day. I have
seen eight or ten deserters, and have heard of many more. We have
had some little skirmishing by detached parties: one attacked their
rear-guard with a degree of success, killed a few, and took seven
prisoners.

An officer is just come in, who informs that he left the enemy’s rear
five miles off, still in march, about half an hour ago. To ascertain
still more fully their route, I have ordered a fresh party on their
left, toward the head of their column. They have three brigades in rear
of their baggage.

                               I am, with great respect and regard, Sir,
                               Your obedient servant,
                               A. Hamilton.

His Excellency General Washington.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                                          June 28, 1778.

Sir:

The result of what I have seen and heard, concerning the enemy, is,
that they have encamped with their van a little beyond Monmouth
Court House, and their rear at Manalapan’s river, about seven
miles from this place. Their march to-day has been very judiciously
conducted;--their baggage in front, and their flying army in the rear,
with a rear-guard of one thousand men about four hundred paces from the
main body. To attack them in this situation, without being supported by
the whole army, would be folly in the extreme. If it should be thought
advisable to give the necessary support, the army can move to some
position near the enemy’s left flank, which would put them in a very
awkward situation, with so respectable a body in their rear; and it
would put it out of their power to turn either flank, should they be
so disposed. Their left is strongly posted, and I am told their right
also. By some accounts, one part of their army lies on the road leading
from the Monmouth road to South Amboy. It is not improbable that South
Amboy may be the object.

I had written thus far when your letter to the Marquis arrived. This
puts the matter on a totally different footing. The detachment will
march to-morrow morning at three o’clock to English Town.

                                     I am, with great regard and esteem,
                                     Your obedient servant,
                                     A. Hamilton.

His Excellency Gen. Washington.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                    Black Point, July 20, 1778.

Sir:

Inclosed I transmit your Excellency a letter from Count D’Estaing. He
has had the river sounded, and finds he cannot enter. He will sail
for Rhode Island to-morrow evening. In the mean time, he is making
demonstrations to deceive the enemy, and beget an opinion that he
intends to operate in this quarter. He would sail immediately, but he
awaits the arrival, or to hear, of a frigate which carried Mr. Gerard
to Delaware, and which he appointed to meet him at Sandy Hook; so
that he fears his sudden and unexpected departure, before she arrives,
might cause her to be lost. He will not, however, wait longer than till
to-morrow evening. We have agreed, that five cannon, fired briskly,
shall be a signal of his arrival by day, and the same number, with
five sky-rockets, a signal by night. In communicating this to General
Sullivan, the Count wishes not a moment may be lost; and that he may
be directed to have persons stationed on the coast, and intermediate
expresses, to facilitate the communication between them. Pilots will
be a material article. He begs every thing may be forwarded as much as
possible; and as many troops collected as may be. He would be glad if a
detachment could march from your army, or could be sent by water; for
which purpose he would send covering ships, and some vessels he has
taken, by way of transports; but he cannot think of losing so much time
as seems necessary. If the water scheme could shorten it, it would be
a happy circumstance. He recommends it to your attention; and that you
would take measures, if the end can be better answered in this way, and
meet him with information of the part he may have to act to execute the
plan. I perceive he can, with difficulty, debark four thousand troops;
but he will try to do it.

I hope your Excellency will excuse my not being myself the bearer of
these particulars; the end may be answered by letter. Mr. Neville is
anxious to get on. I just have heard of dispatches arrived from you. I
don’t know but they may contain something new which may make the Count
to wish a good conveyance to return an answer. My stay till to-morrow
morning may answer that end. I shall not delay coming forward.

                                         I am, Sir, your most respectful
                                         And obedient servant,
                                         Alex. Hamilton.

His Excellency General Washington.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                            Newark, July 23, 1778, one o’clock.

Sir:

I wrote to your Excellency the evening of the 20th, by Major Neville.
I remained in the neighborhood of Black Point till the afternoon
following. The Count had received his expected dispatches from
Congress, and was to sail, as I mentioned before, the first fair wind.
At Brunswick, yesterday, Mr. Caldwell joined me. He was immediately
from the Point, and brought intelligence that the fleet got under way
yesterday morning. The wind, unfortunately, has been much against them;
which is so much the more to be regretted, as they are rather in want
of water.

I need not suggest to your Excellency, that an essential part of the
Rhode Island plan, is to take every possible measure to watch the
enemy’s motions, and to establish expresses from place to place, to
give the Count instant information of any movement among their fleet.
This will enable him to be in time to intercept them, should they
attempt to evacuate New-York, while he is at Rhode Island; and will, in
general, facilitate the intercourse and co-operation between him and
your Excellency.

I have nothing new to communicate, beside what was sent by Major
Neville, and what I now send. All the ideas interchanged between
the Count and myself, were such as were familiar before I left Head
Quarters. He was to go to Rhode Island, and, in conjunction with
General Sullivan, endeavor to possess himself of the enemy’s ships and
troops there; if, on his arrival, he had good reason to think it could
be effected without further assistance. If not, he will be glad of a
reinforcement from you in the most expeditious manner possible. What
manner you think will be most expeditious, you will adopt; and if his
aid may be useful, he will afford it as soon as he is informed of it.

This being the case, my immediate presence at Head Quarters is the less
necessary as to this business; and I hope your Excellency will indulge
me, if I do not make all the dispatch back which a case of emergency
would require; though I do not mean to delay, more than a moderate
attention to my frail constitution may make not improper. I have, &c.,

                                                   A. Hamilton.

His Excellency Gen. Washington.




COL. LAURENS TO HAMILTON.


My Dear Hamilton:

You have seen, and by this time considered, General Lee’s infamous
publication. I have collected some hints for an answer; but I do not
think, either that I can rely upon my own knowledge of facts and
style to answer him fully, or that it would be prudent to undertake
it without counsel. An affair of this kind ought to be passed over in
total silence, or answered in a masterly manner.

The ancient secretary is the Recueil of modern history and anecdotes,
and will give them to us with candor, elegance, and perspicuity.
The pen of Junius is in your hand; and I think you will, without
difficulty, expose, in his defence, letters, and last production, such
a tissue of falsehood and inconsistency, as will satisfy the world, and
put him for ever to silence.

I think the affair will be definitively decided in Congress this day.
He has found means to league himself with the _old faction_, and to
gain a great many partisans.

Adieu, my dear boy. I shall set out for camp to-morrow.

                                                  John Laurens.




LAFAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                               A Yorctown, 1er Septembre, 1778.

Ne suis-je pas bien malheureux, cher Colonel. On me pousse pour aller à
Boston, on me chasse de Rhode Island, ils n’ont ni repos, ni patience
que je ne sois parti, et le même jour que je m’absente est le seul où
j’aurais dû, où j’avais voulu être dans l’île. Le diable en veut dans
ce moment à tous les français; heureusement que je viens de l’attraper,
car à force de courir je suis arrivé à temps pour l’évacuation dont
il voulait encore me priver. Le malheur de ne pas être à la première
affaire m’a fait la peine la plus vive, et je ne m’en consolerai
jamais, quoique ce soit bien loin d’être ma faute. Les deux retraites
font honneur aux troupes et au général Sullivan, qui s’y est conduit
parfaitement, elles en font rue aux Anglais et à leur généraux qui
n’ont montré ni activité, ni génie, du moins à ce qu’il me paraît.

Le malheureux Mr. Tousard a eu le bras emporté au milieu d’une des
actions les plus valeureuses qui ait été faite. C’est un homme aussi
brave qu’il est honnête. Je crains d’embarrasser le général en lui
mandant ce que je voudrais qu’on fît pour lui; mais la commission de
Major ne pouvait-elle pas se changer en celle de lieutenant Colonel;
il avait fait un arrangement avant de partir _le grand arrangement de
Mr. du Coudray_, où en cas de la perte d’un membre, ils devaient avoir
une pension de tant, cet arrangement-là qui comme vous savez n’a pas été
accepté, ne pouvait-il pas se renouveler en sa faveur.

Il faut que vous me rendiez un grand service; c’est de me mander le
plus de détails possibles sur la flotte de Lord Howe,--les moyens qui
existent à New-York, etc. etc. Mr. D’Estaing a beaucoup de raisons de
croire qu’il est arrivé quelques vaisseaux d’Angleterre, autres le
Cornwall. Mandez-moi dans une longue lettre, Mon Cher Hamilton, ce
que vous pensez sur ce qui a été fait, ce qui va se faire, et ce qui
pouvait être fait dans la suite. Votre dépêche me trouvera à Warren,
petite ville près de la Providence, où je vais m’occuper à garder
beaucoup de pays avec peu de troupes, et où sans répondre d’empêcher
une descente des ennemis, je ferai le moins mal possible; si forces
égales, je tâcherai de les battre. On me flatte que le Général viendra
ici lui-même; Dieu le veuille. Les affaires sur lesquelles je vous ai
écrit mes complaintes, l’appaisent un peu, mais pour prendre Rhode
Island il nous faut le Général Washington.

J’attends de vos nouvelles par Mons de Pontgibault et finirai
simplement ma lettre en vous assurant de mon tendre attachement.

                                                     Lafayette.




HAMILTON TO ----.


                                   Head Quarters, Nov. 8, 1778.

Dear Sir:

I have received your favor of the 4th, and shall with pleasure
communicate the intelligence we have had at Head Quarters. On the
morning of the third one hundred and eight sail of vessels sailed out
of the Hook,--supposed, from the best calculations, to contain seven or
eight thousand men. They first steered to the eastward, but soon after
changed their course and bore S. E. with the wind at N. W. The general
accounts from New-York speak of three distinct embarkations--one for
the West Indies--another for Halifax--another for St. Augustine. One
division, which seems to be best ascertained, contains ten or twelve
British regiments, and most of the new levies, which probably went in
the above-mentioned fleet.

This much is pretty certain, that the embarkation has continued since
the departure of that fleet, which is a strong circumstance in favor
of a general evacuation. All their vessels the least out of repair
are drawn up to the different ship-yards, and their repairs are going
on with all possible vigor. Whether the merchants are packing up or
not, is a point still much _in dubio_; though we have several accounts
that look like it, but they are not so precise and certain as could
be wished. Several bales of goods have been seen on the wharves,
marked for particular ships. A deserter, indeed, lately from the city,
insists that he saw Coffin and Anderson packing up. This, if true,
would be decisive, for this is a very considerable house particularly
attached to the army. One of our spies, a trusty one too, writes the
31st of October that the principal part of the sick from the hospitals
had embarked; but this stands almost wholly upon its own bottom. The
capture of Jamaica seems to be a mere rumor. There are several others,
respecting St. Kitts, Monserat, and Grenada. The two former are
said to have been taken by surprise on a temporary absence of their
guard-ships, but these stories were not improbably suggested by a late
sudden and very considerable rise in the prices of rum and molasses.
The former being as high as fourteen or fifteen shillings per gallon.
Large purchases have been made of these articles as sea stores for the
troops, and the speculators in the city have been bidding against the
Commissaries, which better accounts for the increased prices.

It is a question very undecided in my mind whether the enemy
will evacuate or not. Reasoning _a priori_, the arguments seem
to be strongest for it--from the exhausted state of the British
resources--the naked condition of their dominions every where--and the
possibility of a Spanish war. But on the other hand naval superiority
must do a great deal in the business. This, I think, considering all
things, appears clearly enough to be on the side of Britain. The
sluggishness of Spain affords room to doubt her taking a decisive
part. The preserving posts in these States will greatly distress our
trade, and give security to the British West India trade. They will
also cover the West Indies, and restrain any operations of ours against
the British dominions on the continent. These considerations, and
the depreciated state of our currency, will be strong inducements to
keep New-York and Rhode Island, if not with a view to conquest, with
a view to temporary advantages, and making better terms in a future
negotiation.

From appearances, the great delay which attends the embarkation, the
absolute tranquillity of the post at Rhode Island, where there is no
kind of preparation for leaving it, and some other circumstances,
seem to indicate an intention to remain. On the other hand, besides
the general appearances I have already mentioned, their inattention
to the petition of the refugees, and the not raising new works, are
strong additional reasons for going away. I think it most probable,
if they were determined to continue a garrison, that they would give
most explicit assurances to their friends, in order to encourage their
proposal, and engage them to aid in maintaining it. I think also they
would contract their works, to be better proportioned to the number of
the garrison, and of course more defensible, by throwing a chain of
fortifications across the narrow part of the island.

Nothing has yet been decided, that we know of, with respect to the
sentences you mention. General Lee’s case, by our last advices, was on
the eve of a final decision. It seems he has made a strong party in
Congress, and is very confident of having the sentence annulled. St.
Clair’s trial was ordered to be printed for the separate consideration
of the members.

The depreciation of our currency really casts a gloom on our prospects,
but my sentiments on this subject are rather peculiar. I think, bad
as it is, it will continue to draw out the resources of the country a
good while longer, and especially if the enemy make such detachments,
of which there is hardly a doubt, as will oblige them to act on the
defensive. This will make our public expenditures infinitely less--and
will allow the States leisure to attend to the arrangements of their
finances, as well as the country tranquillity to cultivate its
resources.

Any letters that may come to Head Quarters for you will be carefully
forwarded.

                              I am, with the most respectful attachment,
                              Dear Sir, your obed’t servant,
                              A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.


                                Head Quarters, 19th Dec., 1778.

I snatch a hasty moment, my dear Baron, to acknowledge the receipt of
your obliging favor of the sixth. It came here while I was absent in an
interview with some British Commissioners on the subject of an exchange
of prisoners, and was not delivered to me till two days ago. I am sorry
that your business does not seem to make so speedy a progress as we
all wish; but I hope it will soon come to a satisfactory termination.
I wish you to be in a situation to employ yourself usefully and
agreeably, and to contribute to giving our military constitution that
order and perfection it certainly wants. I have not time now to enter
upon some matters which I shall take another opportunity to give you my
sentiments concerning. I have read your letter to Lee with pleasure.
It was conceived in terms which the offence merited; and if he had had
any feeling, must have been felt by him. Considering the pointedness
and severity of your expressions, his answer was certainly a very
modest one, and proved that he had not a violent appetite for so close
a _tête-à-tête_ as you seem disposed to insist upon. This evasion, if
known to the world, would do him very little honor. I don’t know but
I shall be shortly at Philadelphia: if so, I shall have the honor of
personally assuring you of the perfect respect and esteem with which I
am,

                                               My dear Baron,
                                               Your most obed’t servant,
                                               Alex. Hamilton.




NARRATIVE OF AN AFFAIR OF HONOR BETWEEN GENERAL LEE AND COL. LAURENS.


                                                    24th December, 1778.

General Lee, attended by Major Edwards and Col. Laurens attended by
Col. Hamilton, met agreeable to appointment on Wednesday afternoon
half past three, in a wood, situate near the four mile stone on the
Point-no-Point Road. Pistols having been the weapons previously fixed
upon, and the combatants being provided with a brace each, it was asked
in what manner they were to proceed. General Lee proposed to advance
upon one another, and each fire at what time and distance he thought
proper. Col. Laurens expressed his preference of this mode, and agreed
to the proposal accordingly.

They approached each other within about five or six paces, and
exchanged a shot almost at the same moment. As Col. Laurens was
preparing for a second discharge, General Lee declared himself wounded.
Col. Laurens, as if apprehending the wound to be more serious than it
proved, advanced towards the General to offer his support. The same was
done by Col. Hamilton and Major Edwards under a similar apprehension.
General Lee then said the wound was inconsiderable; less than he had
imagined at the first stroke of the ball, and proposed to fire a
second time. This was warmly opposed both by Col. Hamilton and Major
Edwards, who declared it to be their opinion, that the affair should
terminate as it then stood. But General Lee repeated his desire,
that there should be a second discharge, and Col. Laurens agreed to
the proposal. Col. Hamilton observed that, unless the General was
influenced by motives of personal enmity, he did not think the affair
ought to be pursued any further; but as Gen. Lee seemed to persist in
desiring it, he was too tender of his friend’s honor to persist in
opposing it. The combat was then going to be renewed; but Major Edwards
again declaring his opinion, that the affair ought to end where it was,
Gen. Lee then expressed his confidence in the honor of the gentlemen
concerned as seconds, and said he should be willing to comply with
whatever they should coolly and deliberately determine. Col. Laurens
consented to the same.

Col. Hamilton and Major Edwards withdrew, and conversing awhile on the
subject, still concurred fully in the opinion, that for the most urgent
reasons, the affair should terminate as it was then circumstanced. This
decision was communicated to the parties and agreed to by them, upon
which they immediately returned to town; General Lee slightly wounded
in the right side.

During the interview a conversation to the following purport passed
between General Lee and Col. Laurens. On Col. Hamilton’s intimating
the idea of personal enmity, as before mentioned--Gen. Lee declared he
had none, and had only met Col. Laurens, to defend his own honor--that
Mr. Laurens best knew whether there was any on his part. Col. Laurens
replied, that General Lee was acquainted with the motives that had
brought him there, which were, that he had been informed from what he
thought good authority, that Gen. Lee had spoken of General Washington
in the grossest and most opprobrious terms of personal abuse, which he,
Col. Laurens, thought himself bound to resent, as well on account of
the relation he bore to General Washington, as from motives of personal
friendship and respect for his character. General Lee acknowledged
that he had given his opinion against General Washington’s military
character to his particular friends, and might perhaps do it again. He
said every man had a right to give his sentiments freely of military
characters, and that he did not think himself personally accountable
to Col. Laurens for what he had done in that respect. But he said he
never had spoken of General Washington in the terms mentioned, which
he could not have done; as well because he had always esteemed General
Washington as a man, as because such abuse would be incompatible with
the character he would ever wish to sustain as a gentleman.

Upon the whole, we think it a piece of justice to the two gentlemen to
declare, that after they met, their conduct was strongly marked with
all the politeness, generosity, coolness and firmness, that ought to
characterize a transaction of this nature.

                                            Alexander Hamilton.
                                            Ev. Edwards.

Philadelphia, December 24th, 1778.




DUPLESSIS TO HAMILTON.


                                                       11 Janvier, 1779.

Je n’ai point reçu, mon cher Hamilton, les papiers que vous deviez
m’envoyer avec Les Signes en chiffres.

Si vous désirez ce dont nous étions convenu, lorsqueje partis du
quartier Général, remettez le tout à M. De la Colombe, qui dans deux
mois part pour France. Je vous promets beaucoup de vérité et jeu
d’esprit dans la narration.

Dans peu de minutes, nous voguerons; présentez mon respect à son
Excellence, et mes amitiés à toute votre famille. Souvenez-vous de tout
ce que je vous ai dit à mon départ et soyez homme de parole.

Adieu, soyez sûr que vous avez en moi un bon et vrai ami; n’en doutez
point, et vous rendrez justice.

                                        Le Chevalier Duplessis.

  Col. Hamilton,
  Aid-de-Camp of
  His Excellency General Washington,
                      Head Quarters.




HAMILTON TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.


                                 Head Quarters, March 14, 1779.

Dear Sir:

Colonel Laurens, who will have the honor of delivering you this letter,
is on his way to South Carolina, on a project which I think, in the
present situation of affairs there, is a very good one, and deserves
every kind of support and encouragement. This is, to raise two, three,
or four battalions of negroes, with the assistance of the government
of that State, by contributions from the owners, in proportion to the
number they possess. If you should think proper to enter upon the
subject with him, he will give you a detail of his plan. He wishes to
have it recommended by Congress to the State; and, as an inducement,
that they would engage to take their battalions into Continental pay.

It appears to me, that an expedient of this kind, in the present
state of Southern affairs, is the most rational that can be adopted,
and promises very important advantages. Indeed, I hardly see how a
sufficient force can be collected in that quarter without it: and
the enemy’s operations there are growing infinitely serious and
formidable. I have not the least doubt, that the negroes will make
very excellent soldiers, with proper management: and I will venture
to pronounce, that they cannot be put in better hands than those of
Mr. Laurens. He has all the zeal, intelligence, enterprise, and every
other qualification, requisite to succeed in such an undertaking.
It is a maxim with some great military judges, that, with sensible
officers, soldiers can hardly be too stupid: and, on this principle,
it is thought that the Russians would make the best soldiers in the
world, if they were under other officers than their own. The King of
Prussia is among the number who maintains this doctrine, and has a very
emphatic saying on the occasion, which I do not exactly recollect. I
mention this because I have frequently heard it objected to the scheme
of embodying negroes, that they are too stupid to make soldiers. This
is so far from appearing to me a valid objection, that I think their
want of cultivation (for their natural faculties are as good as ours),
joined to that habit of subordination which they acquire from a life of
servitude, will enable them sooner to become soldiers than our white
inhabitants. Let officers be men of sense and sentiment; and the nearer
the soldiers approach to machines, perhaps the better.

I foresee that this project will have to combat much opposition from
prejudice and self-interest. The contempt we have been taught to
entertain for the blacks, makes us fancy many things that are founded
neither in reason nor experience; and an unwillingness to part with
property of so valuable a kind, will furnish a thousand arguments to
show the impracticability, or pernicious tendency, of a scheme which
requires such sacrifices. But it should be considered, that if we do
not make use of them in this way, the enemy probably will; and that
the best way to counteract the temptations they will hold out, will
be, to offer them ourselves. An essential part of the plan is, to give
them their freedom with their swords. This will secure their fidelity,
animate their courage, and, I believe, will have a good influence
upon those who remain, by opening a door to their emancipation. This
circumstance, I confess, has no small weight in inducing me to wish the
success of the project; for the dictates of humanity, and true policy,
equally interest me in favor of this unfortunate class of men.

While I am on the subject of southern affairs, you will excuse the
liberty I take in saying, that I do not think measures sufficiently
vigorous are pursuing for our defence in that quarter. Except the few
regular troops of South Carolina, we seem to be relying wholly on the
militia of that and the two neighboring States. These will soon grow
impatient of service, and leave our affairs in a miserable situation.
No considerable force can be uniformly kept up by militia; to say
nothing of the many obvious and well-known inconveniences that attend
this kind of troops. I would beg leave to suggest, Sir, that no time
ought to be lost in making a draught of militia to serve a twelvemonth,
from the States of North and South Carolina and Virginia. But South
Carolina, being very weak in her population of whites, may be excused
from the draught, on condition of furnishing the black battalions.
The two others may furnish about three thousand five hundred men, and
be exempted, on that account, from sending any succors to this army.
The States to the northward of Virginia, will be fully able to give
competent supplies to the army here; and it will require all the force
and exertions of the three States I have mentioned, to withstand the
storm which has arisen, and is increasing in the South.

The troops draughted, must be thrown into battalions, and officered in
the best possible manner. The supernumerary officers may be made use
of as far as they will go. If arms are wanted for their troops, and
no better way of supplying them is to be found, we should endeavor to
levy a contribution of arms upon the militia at large. Extraordinary
exigencies demand extraordinary means. I fear this southern business
will become a very _grave_ one.

                                  With the truest respect and esteem,
                                  I am, Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                  Alex. Hamilton.

  His Excell’y John Jay,
  President of Congress.




HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.


                                                           May 26, 1779.

The General, on reflection, is a little uneasy about the route you
intend to take. He thinks it not quite safe, as the enemy have troops
on Long Island and may easily throw a party across the Sound, so that
you would be in danger of having your agreeable dreams interrupted, if
you should sleep any where from New Haven to Fairfield.

It is probable, one of the Count’s motives in coming this way may be
to see the ruins of those places; and if he could do it without risk,
it would be desirable; but he would not probably be at his ease, if
in consequence of it, he should be obliged to attend the levee of Sir
Henry Clinton. This may happen if he continues his intention, unless
very good precautions are taken to avoid the danger. The General
recommends it to you, at least to be very vigilant upon your post, and
not to suffer yourself to be surprised. You will be so good as to let
us have timely notice of your approach, as we shall, at least, meet you
at Fishkill Landing, with boats to take you down to Head Quarters.

                                I have the honor to be,
                                Your affectionate and respectful friend,
                                A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO OTHO H. WILLIAMS.


                                                        11th June, 1779.

Dear Williams:

The General sends you four fresh horsemen to enable you to transmit
him intelligence. The General will take the road you marched to your
quarters.

Mind your eye, my dear boy, and if you have an opportunity, fight hard.

                                                Your friend and servant,
                                                A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MAJOR LEE, OR IN HIS ABSENCE, CAPT. McLANE.


                                                             July, 1779.

Sir:

There is an encampment of the enemy, or a demonstration of one, which
appears on the other side of the river, considerably on this side of
Tarry Town. You will be pleased in consequence to have patrols kept
from this till morning, seven or eight miles down along the shore and
on the roads leading to this place on our right. This might be a
critical night, and demands the greatest vigilance.

                                             I am, Sir,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             A. Hamilton,
                                             Aid-de-Camp.




HENRY LAURENS TO HAMILTON.


                                 Philadelphia, 29th July, 1779.

Dear Sir:

In addition to the lines which I troubled you with the day before
yesterday by Colonel, or I should say Doctor McHenry; he is an honest
man with either, or without any title, permit me to inform you. I
presented to Congress this morning, Colonel Fleury’s earnest request
for the flag which he had the glory of lowering at Stony Point, but
there was not a single voice heard in second to my motion. In truth, I
had spoken to several of the members on the subject before the meeting
of Congress; these discovered not only no inclination, but rather an
aversion to parting with so high a testimony of a great and brilliant
victory; nevertheless, I determined to fulfil my promise; you see
the success. Fancy often fills up the chasms made by disappointments
of this kind; many of the most celebrated Italian originals in the
cabinets of curious fanciful men in England, are good copies. Suppose
in the present instance the Colonel should order an accurate likeness
of the first flag to be made, and content himself with that, or that
by a very trifling practice of ambidexterity, he should exchange
the copy for the original; or suppose he should take a much better
and less exceptionable method for accomplishing his wishes, that he
should arm himself with one of Dunlap’s Packets, in which his gallant
behavior and the particular feat of cutting the halliards, stand upon
record by authority of Congress; this might be kept in the tin case
with commissions and testimonials, answer every purpose of display,
and save the trouble and expense of lugging sixty or eighty yards of
bunting round the Globe.

I have executed my commission; have added my best consolatory advice
to a disappointed client, and trust the Colonel will do me the justice
to assure himself, my own opinion on the propriety of his suit was not
disclosed fully or partially to any body before I had received a modest
denial by a profound silence.

Nothing new from South Carolina, excepting a delegate, who left
Charleston one day before the date of our late letters.

                                          I have the honor to be,
                                          With great esteem and respect,
                                          Dear Sir,
                                          Your ob’t and humble serv’t,
                                          Henry Laurens.

Col. A. Hamilton, Head Quarters, North River.




COLONEL FLEURY TO HAMILTON.


                           L’Infantery Camp, 18th August, 1779.

Dear Colonel:

The officers of the two A Battalions of l’Infantery, which I actually
command, have applied to me for ceasing to run over those craggy
mountains barefooted, and beg that I would write to head quarters to
have an order from his Excellency to get one pair of shoes for each;
the shoes they hint to are at New Windsor, and their intention is to
pay for.

Do not be so greedy for shoes as for my blanket, and think that the
most urgent necessity has determined their application; they are quite
barefooted.

                                            I am very respectfully, Sir,
                                            Your most obedient servant,
                                            L. Fleury.

N. B. As his Excellency could form a very advantageous idea of our
being lucky in shoes by the appearance of the officers who dined
to-day at head quarters, and were not quite without, I beg you would
observe to him, if necessary, that each company had furnished a shoe
for their dressing.

                                    Camp l’Infantery, 19th August, 1779.

Si vous savez un mot de M. De La Luzerne dites le moi.




HAMILTON TO JAMES DUANE.


                                                      August 28th, 1779.

Dear Sir:

I with pleasure snatch a moment, agreeable to your request, to inform
you of the events which have taken place since you left us. A York
paper of the 24th, announces the arrival of the Russell of 74, which
parted three days before from Arbuthnot’s fleet, which was of course
momently expected. Subsequent intelligence gives us the arrival of the
whole fleet. This comes through different channels, and is believed;
but we have no particulars. _Wayne is still safe._

Northern news says that Sir George Collier, having appeared in
Penobscot River, put our grand fleet to the rout. They were run ashore,
abandoned, and burnt; the troops and seamen safe. Colonel Jackson’s
regiment, which had been sent as a reinforcement, landed at Portsmouth.
This account comes in a letter from General Gates to Colonel Hay.
To counterbalance the bad in a degree, he tells me three of our
Continental frigates were arrived at Boston with six sail out of ten of
the Jamaica fleet which had fallen into their hands, containing 5000
hdds. of rum and sugar.

                                     I have the honor to be,
                                     Very faithfully and affectionately,
                                     Your most obedient servant,
                                     A. Hamilton.

Hon. Mr. Duane.




BARON STEUBEN TO HAMILTON.


                                                      August 30th, 1779.

Mr. De la Luzerne desires me to join him on his route, to accompany him
to head quarters. I shall depart on Tuesday morning for Providence,
where I may require three days to review the regiments; after which I
shall return immediately to Hartford to join the Minister.

I promised to give you a picture of his new Excellency. He is about
thirty-six years of age, though he appears younger. In the last war he
was aid-de-camp to Marshal Broglio. He appears to be a man of solid
sense, and less presumptuous than the people of quality in that country
usually are. His manners are prepossessing; and they would be more so
if he could speak English. His character appears to me to be good; and
he is less reserved than European Ministers usually are. His personal
appearance will not displease the ladies of Philadelphia. He is a young
chevalier of Malta, who is not so much imbrowned by his crusades, but
that the American beauties will take pains to teach him English in a
short time. His Secretary, Mr. Marbois, is a counsellor of Parliament,
from Metz in Lorraine--speaks good English; and is a man who shows much
information and judgment.

                                                       Steuben.

Col. Hamilton.




DUANE TO HAMILTON.


                                     Kingston, 4th Sept., 1779.

Dear Sir:

I have spent some days at this place with our Legislature, and have
been happy in finding their zeal for the common cause undiminished.
Every thing which can be asked for the army, they will most cheerfully
grant, and Col. Wadsworth is gone away perfectly satisfied. It is
a circumstance to their honor that amidst all their wants and
distresses--flour and carriage have been supplied at 25 per cent. less
than in any part of the Continent: and that by a law of the State. If
it had produced the effect to be expected from so spirited an example,
it must have had a powerful influence on our money: but it is to be
lamented that we stood _single_, and that our citizens are impoverished
by a sacrifice of a fourth of their produce and labor to little purpose.

Be kind enough to forward the inclosed to Lt. Col. Washington;
and to present my respectful compliments to his Excellency the
Commander-in-Chief and the family; and believe me to be, with real
esteem and affection,

                                                 Dear Col.,
                                                 Your most ob’t servant,
                                                 James Duane.

Col. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.


                                                            Sept., 1779.

Dear Baron:

I am at this moment honored with your letter of the 80th ultimo, and
have communicated that part of it which concerns M. De la Luzerne to
the General; agreeably to which we shall take our measures on the
reception of this private public gentleman. We had prepared a party of
Cavalry to receive him at Fishkill, on the supposition that he would
set out with an escort from Boston; but we have now sent orders to the
party immediately to take the route you mention to Hartford, and there
place themselves under your orders.

The General requests you will make his respectful compliments to your
Chevalier, and gives you carte blanche to say every handsome thing you
think proper in his name, of the pleasure which this visit will give
him. I have no doubt that your portrait, which appears to be executed
en maitre, will be found a just representation of the original; and if
he is as happy as his predecessor in gaining the esteem and confidence
of the _men_ of this country, with so many talents to conciliate the
leaders, his ministry will not be unsuccessful. I augur well for him.
Gen. Washington proposes to meet him as a private gentleman at Fishkill.

                                                   A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO DUANE.


                                                          Sept. 7, 1779.

My Dear Sir:

I this day received your letter of the 4th, with one inclosed for Col.
Washington, which was immediately forwarded. You do not mention the
receipt of a line from me which I wrote several days since, giving you
an account of Arbuthnot’s arrival.

The current of our intelligence makes the reinforcement with him amount
to about three thousand, mostly recruits and in bad health; it is said
some preparations are making for an expedition, and there are various
conjectures about the object; some point to the Southward; perhaps
the true destination is the West Indies. But, I confess, I should not
be surprised, if the enemy should make a further and vigorous attempt
to gain possession of two or three of the Southern States. If their
affairs are so desperate with respect to alliance as we are told, the
object of the war on their side, from conquest must necessarily change
to pacification. The acquisition of two or three of the Southern States
would be a handsome counterpoise to their losses in the Islands, and
would enable them to negotiate with the more credit and success the
ensuing winter.

I am happy to have it in my power to gratify your curiosity about the
Western expedition with the inclosed agreeable account. It is the
substance of a letter from General Sullivan of the 30th, extracted
at Col. Hay’s request, for Mr. Lowdon’s paper. The facts are all
true, though you will perceive I have given it a few of the usual
embellishments of a newspaper paragraph. I have not specified the
number of Gen Sullivan’s wounded; they amount to thirty-nine, among
which are Major Titcomb and two other officers. This is a pleasing and
I hope decisive event.

In haste, but with the greatest esteem and regard,

                                        I have the honor to be your most
                                        Obed’t servant,
                                        Alex. Hamilton.




COL. LEE TO HAMILTON.


                                                         Sept. 10, 1779.

My Dear Sir:

I wish you would send me a copy of General Washington’s letter of
instructions to me--a copy of General Orders on the subject of the
19th and the sentence of the Court and trial. The emissaries from the
Virginia party have been industrious to injure my military character.

                                                     I am, dear Sir,
                                                     Yours sincerely,
                                                     Henry Lee.




DUANE TO HAMILTON.


                                                         Sept. 10, 1779.

Dear Sir:

Accept my thanks for your favor of the 28th of August, and your
obliging assurances that you will comply with my request. Unless my
anxiety in the events of the campaign had been very great, I should
not have been so unreasonable as to impose this burthen on any of my
much respected friends at head quarters; well knowing that they, of all
others, have the least leisure. I find the British reinforcement is
arrived. To me it brings no terror, as I think we have the strongest
evidence that it was not originally intended to exceed four thousand
men, and these raw recruits. You say Wayne is still safe. Let him keep
a sharp look out; for I still hold the opinion, that Sir Henry Clinton
is bound in honor to chastise him, for one of the most daring and
insolent assaults that is to be found in the records of chivalry; an
achievement so brilliant in itself--so romantic in the scale of British
admiration--that none but a hero, inspired by the fortitude, instructed
by the wisdom, and guided by the planet of Washington, could, by the
exploit at Paulus Hook, have furnished materials in the page of history
to give it a parallel. * * You see from this how much I am at my ease.

To know the value of domestic enjoyment, next to head quarters, I
recommend the chair at the Board of Treasury, for ten months of a
session, in which both our friends and foes are waging a successful war
against the public credit.

Present my affectionate regard to His Excellency, and the family, and
believe me, with every friendly sentiment,

                                  Your affectionate and devoted servant,
                                  James Duane.




HAMILTON TO DUANE.


                                    West Point, Sept. 14, 1779.

My Dear Sir:

I do not recollect whether I said any thing in my last about the
strength of the reinforcement with Arbuthnot. All the accounts agree
that it does not exceed 3000, mostly recruits, and in very bad health;
it is said more than a thousand died on the passage, and the greater
part of the remainder are journeying fast to the other world. Disease
prevails also in the other parts of the army and among the inhabitants,
more than has been known at any time, since the enemy has been in
possession of the city. They have been of late making extensive
preparations for embarking troops, and we have just received advice,
that two German and one British regiment sailed from New-York on the
11th, under convoy of a Sixty-four. The rumors about the destination
are various. The West Indies, Georgia, Canada, are all talked of, but
the first with most confidence, and is no doubt most probable; our
intelligence announces a continuance of the embarkation.

A vessel lately arrived at Boston from the Cape, reports that
she sailed from that place in company with Count D’Estaing, with
twenty-five sail of the line, and some transports, containing 6000
troops taken in at the Cape, and bound first for Georgia and afterward
farther Northward. She parted with the fleet in latitude 25, longitude
74. Two other vessels, arrived at some place in Connecticut,
pretend that they parted with a French fleet of men of war, and
transports, in the latitude of Bermuda, steering for this coast. These
concurrent accounts are not entirely unworthy of attention, though I am
not disposed to give them entire credit.

The reduction of the enemy’s fleets and armies in this country, would
be the surest method to effect the complete conquest of the Islands;
and it would be one of the most fatal strokes Great Britain could
receive. The stamina of their Military Establishment are in this
country. The ruin of this, and the capture of their seamen and ships,
would be an irrecoverable loss. The West Indies would scarcely have
any further prospect of succor, and would be obliged to submit to the
power of France almost without resistance; which might then operate at
leisure, aided by ample supplies from this continent, which I believe
are the principal thing wanting.

These reasons may have induced the Count to make us a visit, during
the season of inactivity in the West Indies; or if he does not come
himself, if by forming a junction with the Spanish fleet, he can make
a detachment this way, and still maintain a superiority for operation
in that quarter, this perhaps will make the event more probable, than
on the former supposition. I have now given you all the intelligence
we have, and have mixed certainties, rumors, and conjectures. You will
extract and believe as much as you think proper. I shall only add, that
I am with the most perfect esteem and attachment,

                                                Dear Sir,
                                                Your most obed’t serv’t,
                                                A. Hamilton.

The General and family charge me to present their most affectionate
respects. We are to receive the new Minister to-morrow morning.




DUANE TO HAMILTON.


                     Manor of Livingston, 16th September, 1779.

My Dear Col.:

I have had no earlier opportunity to acknowledge the receipt of your
very agreeable favor of the 7th instant. To yours of the ---- I
transmitted an answer by the post.

I perfectly agree in opinion with you what the enemy ought in good
feeling to attempt; but as they uniformly contravene their best
interests, and pursue measures which can produce the least possible
advantage, I conclude they will not persevere in the system of
attacking us in our weakest side--the Southern States. They may too,
by this time, have some reason for declining what a more enterprising
people would hazard at any event. I think I intimated to you that I
should not be surprised if Count D’Estaing paid a visit to our coast
this fall. Reports prevail which announce his approach. In that case
they will be as safe in New-York as at Savannah or Charleston; and
it is no slander to say, that the _safety_ of their army has all
along been their first object. I have many reasons to be anxious for
the expedition against the Six Nations. No less than the safety of
our Northern and Western frontiers depends upon its success; to say
nothing of the vast national advantages which will be derived from the
reduction of these perfidious savages. By the way, what will the world
think of our spirit and our resources, when at the very instant our
enemies, foreign and domestic, pronounced our immediate ruin from the
embarrassment of our finances, and a series of heavy calamities under
which they affirmed we were expiring, they see their grand army cooped
up in a garrison; their forts taken from them by unparalleled bravery;
the country of their Indian allies ravaged and destroyed without
a single effort for their protection; and a capital naval armament
equipped by a single State, which it required misconduct _perhaps_,
on our part, and _certainly_ the most hazardous efforts on theirs, to
defeat! I wait with great impatience for further intelligence from
General Sullivan’s army. I am not sufficiently acquainted with the
country to form a clear idea of their intended route; but if they
visit the Senecas effectually, I suppose we soon shall hear from them
at Conodeseraga, the chief Seneca town, where our State, so long ago
as 1732, made a large purchase for a settlement, to keep them in, but
which was not prosecuted on account of the turbulent and faithless
temper of the Senecas, and the want of vigor in our own Government.

I must close, or lose the opportunity by a sloop passing to New
Windsor. Be so good as to pay my most respectful compliments to His
Excellency, the family, Generals McDougal, Greene and Knox, and _if he
is still safe_, to G. Wayne; and believe me to be with great regard,
and a disposition to do you every possible service,

                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             Jas. Duane.

Col. Hamilton.




DUANE TO HAMILTON.


                         Manor Livingston, 23d September, 1779.

My Dear Sir:

I am obliged much by your kind attention to me. The condition of our
enemies, instead of being formidable, as they predicted, seems daily
to become more feeble; and instead of those vigorous and decisive
operations, which could alone have revived their declining cause, and
kept up the spirits of their infatuated adherents, we see nothing but
languor, discontent, and disgust in their army, their fields, and their
councils. Their king alone, as if literally hardened by a judicial
blindness, persists in his obstinate folly, and courts the destruction
of the British Empire. If, in addition to all his other wants,
distresses, and misfortunes, sickness has taken a deep root among his
troops, and his partisans; a decisive period must in all probability be
speedily put to the mad career.

Count d’Estaing seems to have the ball at his feet. His command of
the ocean must be indisputable when he is joined by the Spanish
squadron lately at Havana. He may divide his force, subdue the West
India Islands, and assist us in expelling or captivating the remnant
of our enemies on this continent. I have, however, some distrust of
the Count’s _planet_. His former ill luck on our coast has led me to
think that he is no _Felix_. I conclude not much from the advantages
he acquired over Biron; for that man is marked for the child of
misfortune, and I dare say if his nativity was cast, it would appear
that his star foreboded decapitation and disgrace. Believe me, I never
meddled with the black art, nor am I over superstitious, and yet I
discern that I am not altogether free from a prejudice which was very
remarkable in the greatest nation of antiquity. Hence it is that I so
anxiously look for the fortunate completion of our western expedition;
even when a train of favorable events renders it so highly probable.

Be so good as to present my affectionate and respectful compliments to
the General and all the family; and believe that I shall be happy in
every opportunity to convince you that I am sincerely,

                                                  Your friend and
                                                  Most obedient servant,
                                                  Jas. Duane.

P. S. How do you like the new Minister of France? I have a letter from
G. Schuyler. In the course of a week I expect him here, and shall
probably accompany him on a visit to the General and our friends at
head quarters.




HAMILTON TO DUANE.


                                                        October 1, 1779.

I am much obliged to you, my dear sir, for your two letters of the
16th and 23d. In haste I snatch up my pen by an express going off to
the Governor, to give you the news as it runs. The most important and
best authenticated is, that Count D’Estaing was arrived on the coast of
Georgia. The tale runs thus. We are in possession of a Charleston paper
of the 6th of September, which mentions that the Viscount de Fontagnes
had arrived at that place, sent by the Count to announce his approach.
Mr. Mitchel, who transmits the paper, adds,--that by the express
which brought it, Mr. Gerard had received dispatches from the Count,
informing him of his intention to attack the enemy in Georgia on the
9th; that in consequence of this intelligence Mr. Gerard had postponed
his voyage a few days to be the bearer of the event. This, I hope, puts
a period to the danger of the Southern States, for which I could not
help having strong apprehensions, notwithstanding the presumption drawn
from the enemies’ past folly against their pursuing any plan favorable
to their interest. I acknowledge the force of the argument, but I was
afraid they might for once blunder upon the right way. The departure of
Cornwallis on the 25th, with the Grenadiers, Light Infantry, and one
British regiment, had increased my horrors on this subject. The nature
of this corps pointed to a temporary service for some important coup
de main. Charleston presented itself as the only object. They would
hardly separate the flower of their troops for any remote and permanent
station. They are continuing their embarkation. The accounts we have
of the particular corps carry them to between five and six thousand.
I send you a Boston paper of the 23d, containing some interesting
European advices.

                          Your most respectful and affectionate servant,
                          Alex. Hamilton.

P. S. The General is happy in the hopes you give him of a speedy
visit from General Schuyler and yourself, and orders me to present his
respects to both. The family join in every sentiment of perfect esteem.




WASHINGTON TO COUNT D’ESTAING.


                  Head Quarters, West Point, October 7th, 1779.

Sir:

Since my letter to your Excellency on the 4th instant, I have had
the honor of a visit from his Excellency, Monsieur Gerard. In the
conversation we had relative to a co-operation with the fleet and
troops under your command, he expressed his doubts of its being
possible for you to continue such a length of time as may be essential
to the success of the undertaking, and which alone could justify me
in going into those extensive preparations absolutely necessary on
our part. I have therefore appointed Brigadier General Du Portail and
Colonel Hamilton to wait upon your Excellency as speedily as possible,
and explain to you fully my ideas of the proposed co-operation--the
means we shall be able to employ--the obstacles we shall have to
encounter on our side--the plans which it may be proper to pursue,
and the measures which are taking and may be taken by the enemy to
counteract them. This will enable your Excellency to determine what you
can with propriety undertake. I shall only add, that if your Excellency
will engage to co-operate with your whole naval and land force against
the enemy’s fleet and army at New-York, till the winter is so far
advanced that the ice will make it impracticable to remain with your
fleet any longer in port, I will bring twenty-five thousand effective
men into the field, and will exert all the resources of the country in
a vigorous and decided co-operation. Without this assurance on the part
of your Excellency, it would be inconsistent with my duty to the public
and to the common cause, to incur the expense and hazard which would be
inseparable from the enterprise, and the more disagreeable consequences
which would attend a failure. I flatter myself your Excellency will be
fully sensible of the weight of the reasons, on which this declaration
is founded, and will approve the frankness with which it is made, and
with which I have instructed General Du Portail and Colonel Hamilton to
disclose to you every circumstance, and every consideration with which
it is necessary you should be acquainted. If your determination should
be in favor of the enterprise, I request you will honor me with a line
in answer to this letter, expressive of your ultimate intentions, and
that you will communicate to the gentlemen who now wait upon you, the
previous measures you propose to pursue, and your sentiments of the
most eligible plan of co-operation. I shall act in consequence, till
the period arrives for concerting a final and more determinate plan.

I would now observe to your Excellency, that you may repose the most
implicit confidence in General Du Portail and Colonel Hamilton, and
accordingly I recommend them to your kind civilities and attention.
And, having done this, I have only to renew the assurances of that
sincere attachment and perfect respect with which I have the honor to be

                                                 Your Excellency’s
                                                 Most obedient servant,
                                                 G. Washington.




HENRY LEE TO HAMILTON.


                                 Mandlopen, October 15th, 1779.

Dear Sir:

I have your letters of the 9th and 18th October. The pilots have orders
one half to proceed to Lewistown, there to wait on you.

The route I cannot yet determine, as I am not sufficiently acquainted.
They will be sent the shortest, and every assistance given them to
expedite their arrival.

Should you leave the Capes before they get there, it would be
necessary to dispatch a courier to cross at Dover and pursue the Jersey
route with directions for them. Yourself or courier must meet them.

My intelligence corresponds exactly with the information obtained from
Captain Monroe and transmitted you from head quarters.

Rhode Island was not evacuated when my last accounts arrived, but
will be on the Count’s appearance. Transports are ready there for the
purpose.

Sandy Hook, the Narrows, and Governor’s Island are strongly fortified.
Be assured of my execution of your wishes, and that

                                           I am your friend and servant,
                                           Henry Lee.

Col. Hamilton.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON AND DU PORTAIL.


                               Head Quarters, West Point, Oct. 18, 1779.

Gentlemen:

I have been favored with Colonel Hamilton’s letter, mentioning your
arrival early on the 11th, at Philadelphia, and your being about to set
off for Lewistown on the morning on which it was written.

I have attentively considered the object to which you more particularly
refer, and am now to authorize you (provided the Count will not
determine on a co-operation to the full extent of my instructions), to
engage the whole force described in my letters to him, comprehending
the Continental troops and militia, in such an enterprise against
the enemy’s shipping, as the Count and you may agree to undertake.
In a word, I will aid him in every plan of operations against the
enemy at New-York, or Rhode Island, in the most effectual manner that
our strength and resources will admit. He has nothing more to do,
therefore, than to propose his own plan, if time will not admit him
to accede to ours; weighing thoroughly, consequences of expense and
disappointment.

Inclosed is some intelligence received from Elizabethtown since your
departure. You will observe the preparations of the enemy for throwing
every possible obstruction in the Count’s passage.

A chain of alarm ships are stationed in the Sound, to communicate the
first approach of the Count’s fleet to the garrison at Rhode Island.
This they can propagate in a few minutes by signal guns. In a letter
from General Gates of the 13th instant, he advises me of the arrival
of the fleet, which some time ago sailed from New-York. It amounts to
fifty-six sail, and appeared to be only in a set of ballast. This was
confirmed by one of the vessels which fell into our hands for a few
hours. The opinion is, that it is designed to take off the garrison.

General Gates makes the marine force at Newport, one fifty, and a
thirty-two gun frigate. The Refugee and Wood fleet, about thirty-seven
sail, mostly armed, at the head of which is the Restoration, late the
Oliver Cromwell, of twenty-two guns. One frigate is also taken notice
of in the fleet from New-York.

Should the operations against New-York, in either case, be undertaken,
it will be of the utmost consequence to block up the garrison at Rhode
Island. You will consider the propriety of suggesting to the Count,
the detaching of a superior sea force for this purpose, previous to
his approaching the Hook. For, should the measure be deferred till his
arrival there, it may not then be possible to prevent their junction
with the army at New-York, as the notice can be so very suddenly
transmitted by means of the signals which they have established.

Every proper attention has been given to preparing the necessary
number of fascines, and such other materials as may be requisite in
this quarter. Fascines, gabions, etc., are also held in readiness at
Providence in case of an operation against Newport. I had thought
of the fire ships, and have taken order in the matter. I do not,
however, choose to go to the great expense they must run us into, till
something is decided with His Excellency Count D’Estaing; but every
thing relative shall be provided, so as to occasion no delay when such
matters become necessary.

                                             I am, Gentlemen,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             G. Washington.

Brigadier-General Du Portail.

Lieutenant-Colonel Hamilton.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON AND DU PORTAIL.


                                  West Point, October 21, 1779.

Gentlemen:

In my letters of the tenth and eighteenth, I transmitted all the
intelligence I had obtained respecting the enemy, from the time of
your departure to those two periods: and by the present conveyance, I
inclose you an extract of a letter from Major-General Gates, of the
15th. By this you will perceive, he was fully persuaded that the enemy
are now preparing to evacuate Rhode Island; and he expected, from his
advices, they would do it on Monday or Tuesday last.

Whether the event has taken place, or not, as yet, is a matter I cannot
determine, having received no information since upon the subject. But
admitting it has not, there is no room to doubt that they have all
things in a condition to do it, on the shortest notice, whenever they
shall think the exigency of their affairs requires it. It is also
equally certain, that they continue to carry on their fortifications
for the defence of New-York with the utmost industry and perseverance;
and appear to be providing for the most obstinate resistance. Indeed,
as their reduction would be attended with the most alarming and fatal
consequences to their nation, nothing else can be reasonably expected.
The moment I hear the troops have left Rhode Island, I will advise you.

The garrisons at Verplanck’s and Stony Points, still remain; but from
the concurring accounts of deserters, the heavy baggage and stores,
except about eighteen or twenty rounds for each cannon, are embarked,
and all matters are putting in train for an evacuation, in case
events make it necessary. The deserters add, as a circumstance of
confirmation, that Sir Henry Clinton was up at the posts about eight
days ago; and that, from that time, they have totally declined carrying
on any works.

Having given you the substance of the intelligence received since my
last, I am led (from the vast magnitude of the object which carried
you from head quarters, and the very interesting consequences it may
involve, all of which I am persuaded will occur to your consideration)
to remark, that the Count’s entering New-York Bay with his fleet,
must be the basis and groundwork of any co-operation that can be
undertaken by us, either for the reduction of the enemy’s whole force,
or the destruction of their shipping only. Every thing will absolutely
depend upon it, in either case; as, without it, and a free and open
communication up and down the rivers, and in the Sound, which cannot
be effected and maintained in any other way, we could not possibly
undertake any operations on Long Island, as our supplies of provisions
and stores could only be obtained by water.

This point, I am certain, would have your due consideration; but it
appearing to me the hinge, the one thing upon which all others must
rest, I could not forbear mentioning it. The circumstance of the
season now, the expenditure of wood, and the necessity of supplying
it, etc., will of course be fully attended to, according to their
importance: and I have only to add, from a desire of preventing a
misconception by either side, if any co-operation is agreed on, that
the terms and conditions may be explicitly understood. And whether it
shall extend to an attempt to reduce the enemy’s whole force, or only
to the destruction of their shipping; your engagements will provide
for the continuance of the Count’s fleet, to secure our retreat, and
the removal of our stores from Long and York Islands, if, unhappily,
it should be found, on experiment, that neither is practicable, and we
should be obliged to abandon the enterprise.

                                          I am, Gentlemen,
                                          With great regard and respect,
                                          Your most obedient servant,
                                          G. Washington.

P. S. 1-4 after three, P. M. Three deserters have just come in, who
left Verplanck’s Point last night. They all corroborate the accounts,
by a detail of circumstances, of the preparations to evacuate both that
and Stony Point. I have no doubt that things will at least be held in
readiness.

                                                 G. Washington.

After dispatching the above, I received a letter from Major-General
Heath, of which the following is a copy.

“I now have the pleasure to acquaint your Excellency, that the enemy
have left both Points, having burnt and destroyed their works.”

General Du Portail.

Colonel Hamilton.

  Mandeville’s, Oct. 21, 1779. 4 o’clock, P. M.




HENRY LEE TO HAMILTON.


                                      Monmouth, Oct. 22d, 1779.

My Dear Sir:

I received your two letters announcing your object, route and wishes.
I sent to you at Lewistown two pilots; one of them Captain Schuyler,
from whom you may know more than from any other, as he was particularly
active.

The enemy’s strength at the Hook consists in two 64’s, the Europa and
Russell; the Raisonable, Renown, Roebuck and Romulus.

Besides these they have ten frigates and some armed schooners. They
have sunk ten hulks in the outer channel, and have more ready to be
sunk; some of those sunk have got afloat and reached shore.

They have also two fire ships. My latest accounts from New-York,
mention that all was attention and labor among the troops. Works are
erecting on both sides the Narrows and on Governor’s Island. Head
quarters in Long Island. Evacuation of Rhode Island not yet taken
place. A vessel got in on the 16th from Georgia, since whose arrival,
the two 64’s, and the Renown have fallen down to New-York.

The troops have embarked from the Hook and gone to the city.

I construe these movements as indicatory of the Count’s withdrawal from
the coast. Do write me whenever you may hear certainly from the fleet.
You will regularly be informed of what passes here.

                                                   I am, dear Sir,
                                                   Yours affectionately,
                                                   Henry Lee.

Col. Hamilton.




MITCHELL TO HAMILTON.


                               Philadelphia, 23d October, 1779.

Sir:

Your favor of the 18th instant from Lewistown, came duly to hand, and
in consequence of your request, expresses have been stationed at proper
distances on the road between this and Lewistown.

Yours of the 19th from Egg Harbor, came to hand at half-past two, and
yours of the 22d instant, from Col. Westcoat’s, came to hand at three
o’clock this afternoon.

I shall only observe in answer to your last note, which came unsealed,
that you have met with no delays from me, since your arrival in this
city from His Excellency’s head quarters, nor shall any delays or
neglects be given you by the Department that I can prevent.

Your letter to the President of Congress is delivered. I have shown
him yours to me. Congress is now sitting, but I shall wait till they
rise in order that his dispatches may go with this conveyance; three
expresses set out with this to attend any orders you may have to
dispatch. If you find more necessary, you shall have them. I had
letters from His Excellency yesterday, but none for you or General
Portail. This day letters came from Charleston, which mention that all
the British forces in Carolina and Georgia had got to Savannah, where
they were invested by the Count D’Estaing, and the American forces. He
had carried his approaches within four hundred yards of their works,
and expected they would surrender in two or three days; the Experiment
taken, and several other ships and their naval force destroyed: but I
expect the President will give you a more particular account; those
accounts are by private letters of good authority. Mr. Laurens was my
informant.

I have sent you per the express, Mr. Trueman Kirk of O’Mooney, four
horses, the best I can procure in so short a time; one of them is a
horse you left here. It is with great difficulty horses can be procured
sufficient to do the public business.

The President of Congress informs me he cannot write at present. The
accounts from the southward are as late as the 4th instant, on which
day the Count’s batteries were to open.

                  I am with esteem and compl’ts to General Portail--Sir,
                  Your most obed’t servant,
                  Jno. Mitchell,
                  _D. Q. Mst._

A letter from His Excellency for you and Gen. Portail was sent to
Lewistown on the 19th inst., but suppose it will be returned; if so, no
time shall be lost in sending it.

Col. Alexander Hamilton.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON AND DU PORTAIL.


                   Head Quarters, West Point, October 25, 1779.

Gentlemen:

I have just received a letter from Colonel Hamilton, mentioning your
having changed your position, at Lewistown, for that of Little Egg
Harbor; and that you would write me more fully on your arrival at the
Furnace. In my last I informed you that the enemy had evacuated both
their posts at King’s Ferry; since which, no alteration has taken place
that has come to my knowledge. Things at Rhode Island remain in the
same situation; at least I have received no accounts, either confirming
or contradicting my former intelligence.

                                        I am, Gentlemen, your most ob’t,
                                        Humble servant,
                                        G. Washington.

Gen. Du Portail.

Colonel Hamilton.




DU PORTAIL AND HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                    Great Egg Harbor Landing, October 26, 1779.

Sir:

We are honored with two letters from your Excellency, of the 10th
and 21st; to the contents of which we beg leave to assure you of our
strictest attention.

That of the 18th has not yet come to hand. It is not improbable, it has
gone round by Lewistown, which has occasioned the delay.

Colonel Hamilton wrote to your Excellency from Philadelphia,
acquainting you with our arrival there, and our intention to proceed
to Lewistown, Cape Henlopen, and from Great Egg Harbor, communicating
our progress since, and our determination to establish ourselves at
Bat Stove Furnace. We have since fixed on this place, about forty-four
miles from the extremity of Cape May (eighteen miles short of the
Furnace, which we found to be more remote than had been represented),
and, as far as we have been able to learn, from 100 to 110 miles of
Sandy Hook, and about 50 from Philadelphia. Your Excellency will easily
perceive the reason of our choosing this station. It did not appear to
us, from our inquiries in Philadelphia, to be a point well ascertained,
that the fleet would stop at the Delaware; and the time which had
elapsed, made it more possible, if the Count should be determined to
prosecute any further operations on the continent, that he would not
lose time by a procedure of this sort, but might content himself with
sending some transports, under escort of a few frigates, to receive the
provisions for the fleet, and proceed himself directly on to the Hook.
On this supposition, our position at Lewistown was entirely ineligible.
The distance at which we were from the city, as well as from the Hook;
the delays that would consequently attend our intelligence from every
quarter; the difficulty and impossibility, sometimes, of traversing
the Bay, made our first situation inconvenient in every respect, in
the event of the fleet’s proceeding immediately to the Hook. These
considerations induced us to cross the Delaware, and take the position
at which we now are; where, or in the vicinity, we propose to remain
till the arrival of the Count; till intelligence from him decides the
inutility of a longer stay; or till we receive your Excellency’s orders
of recall.

We have now a better relation to the different points in which we
are interested, and have taken the necessary precautions to gain the
earliest notice of whatever happens. We have stationed expresses at
the pitch of the Cape, and have established a regular communication
with Major Lee, and with the city. If the fleet should appear off the
Delaware, we can be there in twelve hours after its first appearance;
and if at the Hook, in less than four days; provided Major Lee is
punctual in conveying the intelligence, and the expresses, from either
side, in bringing it.

By recent information from Philadelphia (though not quite so distinct
and accurate as we could wish), we find, that so late as the fourth of
this month, the Count, as yet, was to open his batteries against the
enemy at Savannah. The time that will probably intervene between this
and the final reduction; the re-embarkation of the Count’s troops; the
dispositions for sailing, and his arrival on this coast; may, we fear,
exhaust the season too much to permit of the co-operation to which our
mission relates.

We do not, however, despair; for if the Count has been fully
successful to the southward, and should shortly arrive (which may be
the case), the enterprise may possibly go on.

In a letter from Major Lee, of the 22d, he informs us, that a vessel
from Georgia arrived on the 16th; since which the two sixty-fours, and
the Renown, which were at the Hook, had fallen down towards New-York;
and the troops at the Hook had embarked and gone to the city. At first
sight, this account alarmed us, and made us apprehensive that the enemy
had received some favorable advices from the southward, which put
them out of danger, and superseded the necessity of continuing their
preparations for defence. But, on further reflection, we think it more
probable, that this is only a change of disposition; and that finding,
on closer examination, they would be unable to defend the Hook, they
had determined to relinquish the attempt.

This seems the more likely, as Major Lee mentions, that a part of the
hulks, sunk in the channel, had gotten afloat and drifted ashore.

To this experience of the difficulty of obstructing the channel, may,
perhaps, be attributed the change we suppose. And we are confirmed in
this conjecture, by the evacuation of the two posts at King’s Ferry,
which appears, by your Excellency’s letter, to have taken place on the
21st, five days after the supposed arrival of the vessel from Georgia;
a proof that they had not received information of any decisive good
fortune on their side, or ill fortune on ours; and that they persisted
in their defensive plan. We are persuaded, too, that their exultation
would have given wings to any good news they might have received,
and that it would have reached us before this. Were the season less
advanced, we should regret this change of disposition; because we
believe the attempt to defend the entrance of the Hook would have been
fruitless; and it might have thrown a part of their ships, and of their
troops, into our hands, in the first instance, which could not fail to
facilitate the successive operations.

But, at this late period, it may rather be an advantage. To force the
passage, might have required land operations against the Hook, which
would lose time and expose the fleet to the hazard of winds, which
would have rendered its situation critical. Now, the fleet may probably
enter the bay, on its first approach, and be in security: and the whole
operation will be brought to a point, and may demand less time for its
accomplishment.

As a large number of fascines, ready for use, appear to us essential
to any operations that may be undertaken, we presume your Excellency
has been preparing, and will continue to prepare as many as possible.
We beg leave to suggest the utility of having, at the same time, a
sufficient number of gabions and sand bags. Of the former, Colonel
Gouvion, if your Excellency thinks proper, may be charged with
the constructing: the latter may be made under the care of the
Quarter-Master at Philadelphia. Several thousands may be necessary. The
usual dimensions are fifteen or eighteen inches long, and twelve wide.
If notwithstanding the advices from Major Lee, any thing by land is to
be attempted against the Hook, these will be peculiarly useful on such
a flat, sandy spot; and, indeed, it would be impracticable to construct
batteries, in any reasonable time, without them.

                                             We have the honor to be,
                                             Sir, your most obedient and
                                             Humble servants,
                                             A. Hamilton.
                                             Du Portail.

His Excellency Gen. Washington.




HENRY LEE TO HAMILTON.


                                                       October 29, 1779.

My Dear Sir:

I have nothing new since my last; only a report aboard the Navy at the
Hook, purporting two naval actions, the one in the English Channel
between the grand fleets: the second in the West Indies: in the former
the British were worsted; the Ardent, man-of-war, Admiral Gambier,
sunk, and the fleet drove into two different ports where they were
blocked up; in the latter the French were much damaged, and four of
their capital ships taken.

Lt. Col. Simcoe has made lately a very extraordinary tour to
Middlebrook: he burnt the boats, magazine of forage, court-house,
meeting-house, took two officers at Mr. Vanhorn’s, and lost himself
near Brunswick. The party got safe to South Amboy. I send you a letter
from head quarters.

                                                   Adieu.
                                                   Yours affectionately,
                                                   Henry Lee.

Col. Hamilton.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON AND DU PORTAIL.


                   Head Quarters, West Point, November 1, 1779.

Gentlemen:

I have this day been favored with yours of twenty-sixth ult.,
informing me of your removal to Great Egg Harbor. My letter of the
eighteenth, which had not reached you, went, as you supposed, by way of
Philadelphia; and, lest any accident may have happened to it, I inclose
you a duplicate. Mine of the thirtieth ultimo, which went through Major
Lee, informed you of the evacuation of Rhode Island. I have since
received a letter of the twenty-first ultimo, from my confidential
correspondent in New-York. He informs me that Rawdon’s corps, the 57th,
and some of the artillery, were then embarked: and it was said, and
generally believed, that they were bound to Halifax. That the Robuste,
of seventy-four guns, had arrived the twentieth, from Halifax; and that
a number of transports were taking in water and ballast. He gave me
nothing further worth communicating.

You will find, by the letter of the 18th, that a provision of
fascines and gabions was making; and I shall give directions to the
Quarter-Master-General, to provide a quantity of sand bags.

I am sorry to inform you, that Colonel La Rodiere died on Saturday
last. He is to be buried this day with the honors due to his rank.

                                     I am, with great esteem, Gentlemen,
                                     Your most obedient servant,
                                     G. Washington.

P. S. Upon a presumption that Colonel Laurens will be on board the
fleet, the inclosed are sent to you.

Brigadier-General Du Portail.

Colonel Hamilton.




WASHINGTON TO DU PORTAIL AND HAMILTON.


                   Head Quarters, West Point, November 2, 1779.

Gentlemen:

Since mine of yesterday, I have received another letter from my
confidential correspondent in New-York, dated the twenty-ninth ultimo.
He informs me, that the fifty-seventh regiment, Rawdon’s corps, and the
artillery mentioned in his last, were to sail on that day for Halifax;
and with them, all the heavy ships of war, except the Europa. The
Daphne frigate, with Sir George Collier and Colonel Stewart on board,
was to sail for England the same day. He says the pilots reported, that
it was now difficult to bring a vessel into the Hook, on account of
the hulks sunk there. (By this it would seem that some of them still
remained upon the shoals.) He says the transports mentioned in his
last, as taking in water and ballast, only carried it down to the ships
at the Hook. The Rainbow, of forty guns, had arrived from Halifax. He
informs me of no other circumstances that materially relate to affairs
in New-York. He says a packet arrived from England on the twenty-third
October. The accounts brought by her seemed to alarm the tories very
much. It was reported that the Ardent, of sixty-four guns, had been
taken, and the English fleet chased into Portsmouth by the combined
fleet, which remained off that place several days. He mentions these
matters as current reports, and adds, that a fleet of victuallers were
to sail from Cork the latter end of September, and another of store
ships and merchantmen, from Spithead, about the same time.

                                     I am, with great regard, Gentlemen,
                                     Your most obedient servant,
                                     G. Washington.

The capture of the Ardent is confirmed by a New-York paper of the
twentieth ultimo.

General Du Portail and Colonel Hamilton.




DU PORTAIL TO HAMILTON.


                                            Samedi Matin, 1779.

Mon Cher Colonel:

J’ai beaucoup revé depuis hier à l’affaire de Caroline, et je trouve
toujours dans ma tête les mêmes choses, la même façon de voir, les
mêmes dispositions, que je vais vous expliquer en deux mots. Je serais
certainement bien aise d’aller en Caroline pendant cet hiver, mais je
ne voudrais pas absolument le demander, parce que, si je le demande, on
ne me saura plus de gré, que je n’irai pas avec le même agrément, que
je ne pourrai faire aucune espèce d’arrangements qui me donne le moyen
d’être vraiment utile là-bas, qu’il me vaudra voyager à mes dépens, ce
que l’état de mes finances ne me permet pas, etc., etc. Je ne désire
donc y aller que dans le cas où le Congrès ayant par exemple assez
bonne opinion de moi pour croire que dans le moment critique je puis
être nécessaire dans le pays, il penserait de lui même ou averti par
quelqu’un à m’y envoyer, ne pourriez vous donc pas mon cher Colonel,
à propos de la demande du Géneral Washington au Congrès, observer,
_comme de vous même_, au Géneral, que si je voulais aller passer mon
hiver en Caroline cela serait peut-être fort avantageux. Si le
Géneral le jugeait ainsi, probablement, il vous demanderait si vous
croyez que cela me convient d’ailleurs et me fait plaisir. Sur cela
vous pourriez lui répondre que vous en êtes persuadé, et que je vous
ai fait entrevoir même que dans cette circonstance, je désirerais que
le Géneral et le Congrès jugeassent à propos de m’envoyer dans le sud,
mais pour le moment de crise seulement, souhaitant de revenir pour ses
ordres au commencement de la Congrès prochaine. Le Géneral prendrait
donc la résolution pour cela de me donner les ordres nécessaires,
si je n’ai besoin que des siens, ou s’il pense que le Congrès doit
intervenir, d’expliquer au Congrès sa façon de penser à cet égard. Ceci
suffit à quelqu’un d’aussi intelligent que vous, pour négocier sous le
pied où je désire, ainsi je laisse le reste à faire à votre amitié. Que
cette lettre d’ailleurs soit un secret entre nous, de quelque façon que
l’affaire tourne; mais je désire absolument d’être gratifié en ceci.
Adieu je vous attends à dîner et j’ai l’honneur d’être.

                                            General Du Portail.

Col. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO LAURENS.


Cold in my professions--warm in my friendships--I wish, my dear
Laurens, it were in my power, by actions, rather than words, to
convince you that I love you. I shall only tell you, that till you bid
us adieu, I hardly knew the value you had taught my heart to set upon
you. Indeed, my friend, it was not well done. You know the opinion I
entertain of mankind; and how much it is my desire to preserve myself
free from particular attachments, and to keep my happiness independent
of the caprices of others. You should not have taken advantage of my
sensibility, to steal into my affections without my consent.

But as you have done it, and as we are generally indulgent to those
we love, I shall not scruple to pardon the fraud you have committed,
on one condition; that for my sake, if not for your own, you will
continue to merit the partiality which you have so artfully instilled
into me. I have received your two letters: one from Philadelphia, the
other from Chester. I am pleased with your success so far; and I hope
the favorable omens that precede your application to the Assembly,
may have as favorable an issue; provided the situation of affairs
should require it, which I fear will be the case. But, both for your
country’s sake and for my own, I wish the enemy may be gone from
Georgia before you arrive; and that you may be obliged to return, and
share the fortunes of your old friends. In respect to the commission
which you received from Congress, all the world must think your conduct
perfectly right. Indeed, your ideas upon this occasion seem not to
have their wonted accuracy; and you have had scruples, in a great
measure, without foundation. By your appointment as Aid-de-Camp to the
Commander-in-Chief, you had as much the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel
as any officer in the line. Your receiving a commission as
Lieutenant-Colonel, from the date of that appointment, does not, in
the least, injure or interfere with one of them; unless, by virtue of
it, you are introduced into a particular regiment, in violation of the
right of succession, which is not the case at present, neither is it
a necessary consequence. As you were going to command a battalion, it
was proper you should have a commission; and if this commission had
been dated posterior to your appointment as Aid-de-Camp, I should have
considered it derogatory to your former rank, to mine, and to that of
the whole corps. The only thing I see wrong in the affair is this:
Congress, by their conduct, both on the former and present occasion,
appear to have intended to confer a privilege, an honor, a mark of
distinction, a something upon you, which they withheld from other
gentlemen of the family. This carries with it an air of preference,
which, though we can all truly say we love your character and admire
your military merit, cannot fail to give some of us uneasy sensations.
But in this, my dear, I wish you to understand me well. The blame, if
there is any, falls wholly upon Congress. I repeat it, your conduct has
been perfectly right, and even laudable. You rejected the offer when
you ought to have rejected it; and you accepted it when you ought to
have accepted it; and let me add, with a degree of over-scrupulous
delicacy. It was necessary to your project. Your project was the public
good; and I should have done the same. In hesitating, you have refined
on the refinements of generosity.

There is a total stagnation of news here. Gates has refused the Indian
command. Sullivan is come to take it. The former has lately given a
fresh proof of his impudence, his folly, and his *********. ’Tis no
great matter; but a peculiarity in the case prevents my saying what.

Fleury shall be taken care of. All the family send love. In this, join
the General and Mrs. Washington; and what is best, it is not in the
style of ceremony, but sincerity.




LAURENS TO HAMILTON.


                               Philadelphia, December 12, 1779.

My Dear Hamilton:

Upon my arrival here yesterday evening, I communicated the intelligence
received from General Wayne, to the President of Congress and the
French minister. The latter surprised me greatly, by informing me,
that only one 74 gun ship of the Count De Grasse’s division, and
the Fier Rodrigue, had arrived at Chesapeake. I am at a loss how to
account for the absence of the rest. They have not been within the
reach of a superior enemy’s force: no storm has happened, within
our knowledge, to drive them to any considerable distance from the
coast. It cannot rationally be supposed that the Count has received
countermanding orders, and that a capital ship of the line, together
with a very valuable warlike merchantman, is to be sacrificed. Be the
case as it may, all hopes of passing our reinforcement for the southern
department, by sea, are out of the question. The North Carolina
Brigade, after profiting by the navigation of the Delaware as far as
it would serve them, marched to the head of Elk. Thence they proceed,
by water, across the Chesapeake, and up to Petersburgh, where they are
to be overtaken by their wagons, and pursue the rest of their way by
the middle road to Charleston. This is the route marked by the Board
of War, and a Committee of Congress appointed to confer with them;
and I believe it was recommended by Doctor Burke, one of the North
Carolina delegates lately from that country. It is intended that the
Virginians should pursue the same as far as Petersburgh, where they
are to take an upper road. In this route we do not avail ourselves of
Albemarle Sound. The going up the river to Petersburgh will certainly
be tedious; and four hundred miles land march is to be executed from
thence. I communicated these objections to Mr. Matthews, and proposed
the route which the General pointed out; but the poverty of the country
in provision, and the means of transporting the baggage of the troops,
he said, would outweigh the advantages of the water carriage and
direct road. I am by no means satisfied with the present arrangement,
when I reflect how much more rapidly the British may convey their
reinforcements: but all the inquiries I have made hitherto, have
produced nothing favorable to our plan. Indeed, in the present
unguarded state of the Chesapeake, the British might render the passage
even of that ineligible.

Mr. Serle, a member of Congress, who arrived in town last night from
the neighborhood of Major Leigh’s post, asserts, that no transports
were at the Hook on Wednesday. Whether the British operations are
delayed by false rumors of Count De Grasse’s division; or whether
they have heard, as we have here, that Count D’Estaing was still
on the coast the twentieth of November, I cannot decide: but one
would be inclined to think, that they are disconcerted, either by
false intelligence, or a total defect of it. I entreat you, my dear
friend, to transmit me the earliest and most accurate relation that
can be obtained, of the British movements; and enlighten me with your
observations upon them. Present my respects and love to our excellent
General and the family. May you enjoy all the pleasure, moral and
physical, which you promise yourself in winter quarters, and be as
happy as you deserve. Tell the Doctor I shall commit his darling to
the press this morning.

                                                  Yours, ever,
                                                  John Laurens.

Colonel Hamilton.




LAURENS TO HAMILTON.


                               Philadelphia, December 18, 1779.

My Dear Hamilton:

On my arrival in town, I was informed by the President, that Congress
had suspended the business of appointing a secretary to their minister
plenipotentiary at Versailles, until my return, in hopes that I might
still be prevailed upon to accept the office. I replied, that I thought
my letter upon the subject sufficiently explicit; and assured him of
my sincere desire to be excused from serving in that capacity at the
present juncture of our affairs.

He urged the unanimity of the choice with respect to me; the difficulty
of uniting the suffrages of all parties, in case of a new nomination;
and the advantages of this union. Several delegates of Congress
declared to me the embarrassment of Congress since I had declined. One,
in particular, suggested to me his apprehension of interest being made
for a late delegate of New-York, who is candidate for the office, and
to whom the world, in general, allows greater credit for his abilities
than his integrity; and said, “he was determined to oppose him with
all his influence.” When I quitted town the sixteenth, these matters
crowded into my mind. I fell into a train of serious reflections and
self-examination; endeavored to investigate whether I had acted
consonantly to the καλον και αγαθον, and fulfilled the duties of a good
citizen in this transaction. In fine, I agitated the grand question,
Whether a citizen has a right to decline any office to which his
countrymen appoint him; upon what that right is founded; and whether it
existed in my case.

After undergoing the severest conflict that ever I experienced;
sometimes reproaching, sometimes justifying myself; pursuing my
journey, or turning retrograde; as the arguments on the one side or the
other appeared to prevail; I determined that I had been deficient in
the duties of a good citizen. I returned to Philadelphia; communicated
my sentiments to the President and two other members; and declared
to them, that I thought it incumbent on me, in the first place, to
recommend a person equally qualified in point of integrity, and much
better in point of ability. That if, unhappily, they could not agree
upon Colonel Hamilton, and that I was absolutely necessary to exclude
a dangerous person, or to prevent pernicious delays, I should think it
my duty to obey the orders of Congress. The persons now in nomination,
are, Colonel Hamilton, Mr. Lovell, Mr. G. Morris, Major Stewart. I am
sorry that you are not better known to Congress. Great stress is laid
upon the probity and patriotism of the person to be employed in this
commission. I have given my testimony of you in this, and the other
equally essential points.

I am sorry to inform you, that the North Carolina brigade had not
quitted Elk the sixteenth; having been detained by the ice.

I am sorry to write you, just as I am on the wing. Be so good as to
thank Tilghman for his letter. Inform him, from Mr. Mitchell, that his
habiliments are making.

                                                My love as usual. Adieu.
                                                John Laurens.

Colonel Hamilton.




LAURENS TO HAMILTON.


                                              Charleston, 1779.

Ternant will relate to you how many violent struggles I have had
between duty and inclination--how much my heart was with you, while I
appeared to be most actively employed here. But it appears to me that I
should be inexcusable in the light of a citizen, if I did not continue
my utmost efforts for carrying the plan of the black levies into
execution, while there remains the smallest hopes of success.

Our army is reduced to nothing almost, by the departure of the
Virginians. Scott’s arrival will scarcely restore us to our ancient
number. If the enemy destine the reinforcements from Great Britain
to this quarter, as in policy they ought to do, that number will be
insufficient for the security of our country. The Governor, among other
matters to be laid before the House of Assembly, intends to propose the
completing our continental battalions by drafts from the militia. This
measure, I am told, is so unpopular that there is no hope of succeeding
in it. Either this must be adopted, or the black levies, or the State
will fall a victim to the improvidence of its inhabitants.

The House of Representatives have had a longer recess than usual,
occasioned by the number of members in the field. It will be convened,
however, in a few days. I intend to qualify, and make a final effort.
Oh that I were a Demosthenes! The Athenians never deserved a more
bitter exprobation than our countrymen.

General Clinton’s movements, and your march in consequence, made me
wish to be with you. If any thing important should be done in your
quarter, while I am doing daily penance here, and making useless
harangues, I shall execrate my stars, and be out of humor with
the world. I entreat you, my dear friend, write me as freely as
circumstances will permit, and enlighten me upon what is going forward.

Adieu. My love to our colleagues. I am afraid I was so thoughtless as
to omit my remembrances to Gibbs. Tell him that I am always his sincere
well-wisher, and hope to laugh with him again ere long.

                                                Adieu again. Yours ever,
                                                John Laurens.




HAMILTON TO ROBERT MORRIS.


Sir:

The present conjuncture is by all allowed to be peculiarly critical.
Every man of reflection employs his thoughts about the remedies
proper to be applied to the national disorders; and every one,
from a partiality to his own ideas, wishes to convey them to those
who are charged with the management of affairs. The channel of the
public papers, commonly made use of for the purpose, appears to me
exceptionable on several accounts. It not only restrains a freedom
of discussion, from the extreme delicacy of the subject; but the
discussion itself increases the evil, by exposing our weak sides
to the popular eye, and adding false terrors to those well-founded
apprehensions which our situation authorizes.

Instead of pursuing this method, I prefer addressing myself to a member
of that body, in whose power alone it is, by well-digested system, to
extricate us from our embarrassments. I have pitched upon you, from a
personal knowledge of your abilities and zeal. If I offer any thing new
and useful, I am persuaded you will endeavor to turn it to advantage.
If the contrary is the case, I am, at least, doing no harm. I shall
only have had the trouble of writing, and you of reading, a few useless
pages.

The object of principal concern is the state of our currency. In
my opinion, all our speculations on this head have been founded in
error. Most people think, that the depreciation might have been
avoided, by provident arrangements in the beginning, without any aid
from abroad: and a great many of our sanguine politicians, till very
lately, imagined the money might still be restored by expedients within
ourselves. Hence the delay in attempting to procure a foreign loan.

This idea proceeded from an ignorance of the real extent of our
resources. The war, particularly in the first periods, required
exertions beyond our strength, to which neither our population nor
riches were equal. We have the fullest proof of this, in the constant
thinness of our armies; the impossibility, at this time, of recruiting
them otherwise than by compulsion; the scarcity of hands in husbandry,
and other occupations; the decrease of our staple commodities; and the
difficulty of every species of supply. I am aware that the badness of
the money has its influence; but it was originally an effect, not a
cause, though it now partakes of the nature of both. A part of those
evils would appear, were our finances in a more flourishing condition.
We experienced them before the money was materially depreciated; and
they contributed to its depreciation. The want of men soon obliged
the public to pay extravagant wages for them in every department.
Agriculture languished from a defect of hands. The mechanic arts did
the same. The price of every kind of labor increased: and the articles
of foreign commerce, from the interruption it received, more than kept
pace with other things.

The relative value of money being determined by the greater or less
portion of labor and commodities which it will purchase; whatever these
gained in price, that of course lost in value.

The public expenditures, from the dearness of every thing, necessarily
became immense; greater in proportion than in other countries; and much
beyond any revenues which the best concerted scheme of finance could
have extracted from the natural funds of the State. No taxes, which
the people were capable of bearing, on that quantity of money which
is deemed a proper medium for this country (had it been gold instead
of paper), would have been sufficient for the current exigencies of
Government.

The most opulent States of Europe, in a war of any duration, are
commonly obliged to have recourse to foreign loans or subsidies.[3]
How, then, could we expect to do without them, and not augment the
quantity of our artificial wealth beyond those bounds which were proper
to preserve its credit? The idea was chimerical.

The quantity of money formerly in circulation among us, is estimated
at about thirty millions of dollars. This was barely sufficient for
our interior commerce. Our exterior commerce was chiefly carried on
by barter. We sent our commodities abroad, and brought back others
in return. The balance of the principal branch was against us; and
the little _specie_ derived from others, was transferred directly to
the payment of that balance, without passing into home circulation.
It would have been impracticable, by loans and taxes, to bring such
a portion of the forementioned sum into the public coffers as would
have answered the purposes of the war: nor could it have spared so
considerable a part, without obstructing the operations of domestic
commerce. Taxes are limited, not only by the quantity of wealth in a
State, but by the temper, habits, and genius of the people; all which,
in this country, conspired to render them moderate: and as to loans,
men will not be prevailed upon to lend money to the public when there
is a scarcity, and they can find a more profitable way of employing it
otherwise, as was our case.

The ordinary revenues of the United Provinces amount to about
twenty-five millions of guilders; or two millions two hundred and
fifty thousand pounds sterling per annum. This is, in proportion to
its territory and numbers, the richest country in the world; and
the country where the people sustain the heaviest load of taxes.
Its population is about equal to ours, two millions of souls. The
burthens on the subject are so great, that it is by some held almost
impracticable, even on extraordinary emergencies, to enlarge the
revenues by new impositions. It is maintained, their dependence, in
these cases, must be on the extraordinary contributions of wealthy
individuals; with the aid of which, in some of their wars, they have
raised four millions sterling a year. In a country possessed of so
vast a stock of wealth, where taxes are carried to such a height;
and where the means of paying them so infinitely exceed those in our
power; if the national revenues only amount to the sum I have stated,
how inadequate must have been the product of any taxes we could have
levied, to the demands of the service! Loans, for the reason before
hinted, would have been out of the question; at least, they would have
been so trifling as to be an object of little importance. Suppose we
should have been able to raise a million sterling, annually; a sum
that probably would have exceeded our ability; how unequal would this
have been to our wants![4] No economy could have made it bear any
proportion, especially if we recur to the causes already enumerated, by
which the currency depreciated in its first stages.

From these reasonings it results, that it was not in the power of
Congress, when their emissions had arrived at the thirty millions of
dollars, to put a stop to them.[5] They were obliged, in order to
keep up the supplies, to go on creating artificial revenues by new
emissions; and as these multiplied, their value declined. The progress
of the depreciation might have been retarded, but it could not have
been prevented. It was, in a great degree, necessary.

There was but one remedy; a foreign loan. All other expedients should
rather have been considered as auxiliary. Could a loan have been
obtained, and judiciously applied, assisted by a vigorous system of
taxation, we might have avoided that excess of emissions which has
ruined the paper. The credit of such a fund would have procured loans
from the moneyed and trading men within ourselves; because it might
have been so directed, as to have been beneficial to them in their
commercial transactions abroad.[6]

The necessity for a foreign loan is now greater than ever. Nothing else
will retrieve our affairs.

The wheels of Government, without it, cannot much longer be kept in
motion. Including Loan-office certificates, and State emissions,
we have about four hundred millions of dollars in circulation. The
real value of these, is less than seven millions, which is the true
circulating medium of these States: for though the price of specie is
      and the rate of exchange for sterling bills      the nominal value
of every commodity is at least sixty to one, on an average. All the
reasonings against the possibility of raising the current expenses
on the foundation of thirty millions, apply to our present situation
in the ratio of thirty to seven; that is, it is as thirty to seven
less practicable now than when our emissions amounted to only thirty
millions. Could every dollar in circulation be brought annually
into the treasury, which never was effected in any country, and is
politically impossible, the revenue would not be equal to the yearly
expense.

The hope of appreciating the money, by taxes and domestic loans, is
at an end. As fast as it could be received, it must be issued in the
daily expenditures. The momentary interval between its being drawn out
of circulation and returning into it, would prevent its receiving the
least advantage.

These reasonings may appear useless, as the necessity of a foreign
loan is now acknowledged, and measures are taking to procure it. But
they are intended to establish good principles; the want of which has
brought us to the desperate crisis we are arrived at, and may still
betray us into fatal mistakes.

How this loan is to be employed, is now the question; and its
difficulty equal to its importance! Two plans have been proposed: one,
to purchase up at once, in specie, or sterling bills, all superfluous
paper; and to endeavor, by taxes, loans, and economy, to hinder its
returning into circulation. The remainder, it is supposed, would then
recover its value. This, it is said, will reduce our public debt to the
sterling cost of the paper.

Suppose two hundred millions were to be purchased, and the rest called
in by taxes. At       this would require bills to the amount
of       of dollars. But I doubt whether four times this sum would be
sufficient. The moment it was known such purchases were to be made,
the avarice of the speculators would begin to operate: the demand
would immediately occasion an artificial appreciation; each successive
million would cost more than the preceding. But this appreciation
would be more relative to the purchasing medium than to the prices
of commodities. The raising the value of the paper relative to the
former, would depend on the combination of a few artful individuals,
and would be easily accomplished. The diminution of prices must be
slow, as it implies a change in the sentiments of the body of the
people with respect to the money. A sudden revolution in the general
rates of all the necessaries of life is not to be expected. The prices
of these, as they have reached their present summit by degrees, must,
by degrees, revert to their former station. The minds of the people
will not readily admit impressions in favor of the currency. All their
past experience has given a habit of diffidence; and the epidemical
spirit of extortion will maintain a violent struggle with whatever has
a tendency to produce a fall of prices. A permanent reduction of the
quantity of circulating cash, will alone gradually effect it. But this
will not happen on the present plan.

The necessity of continuing the supplies at nearly the same rates now
given (which would be the case if my reasonings are true), would have
nearly the same effect mentioned with respect to taxes and domestic
loans. The money would return into circulation almost as fast as it
was drawn out: and at the end of the year we should find our treasury
empty; our foreign loan dissipated; and the state of our finances
as deplorable as ever. At a moderate calculation, we should have
spent ten or twelve millions of real dollars, for the sole purpose of
carrying on the war another year. It would be much better, instead
of purchasing up the paper currency, to purchase the supplies out of
our specie or bills. In the first instance, the public would suffer a
direct loss of the artificial appreciation, relative to the purchasing
medium: in the last, it would buy at the value of the commodities in
specie or bills.

A great source of error in disquisitions of this nature, is the judging
of events by abstract calculations; which, though geometrically true,
are false as they relate to the concerns of beings governed more by
passion and prejudice, than by an enlightened sense of their interests.
A degree of illusion mixes itself in all the affairs of society. The
opinion of objects has more influence than their real nature. The
quantity of money in circulation is certainly a chief cause of its
decline: but we find it is depreciated more than five times as much as
it ought to be by this rule. The excess is derived from opinion; a want
of confidence. In like manner we deceive ourselves, when we suppose the
value will increase in proportion as the quantity is lessened. Opinion
will operate here also; and a thousand circumstances may promote or
counteract the principle.

The other plan proposed, is to convert the loan into merchandise, and
import it on public account. This plan is incomparably better than
the former. Instead of losing on the sale of its specie or bills, the
public would gain a considerable profit on the commodities imported.
The loan would go much further this way, in supplying the expenses
of the war; and a large stock of valuable commodities, useful to the
army and to the country, would be introduced. This would affect the
prices of things in general, and assist the currency. But the arts
of monopolizers would prevent its having so extensive and durable an
influence as it ought to have.

A great impediment to the success of this, as well as the former
scheme, will be the vast sums requisite for the current expenses. The
arguments adduced in the former case are applicable here also, though
not with equal force. The necessity the public will be under of
parting with its stock to defray the daily demands, will give designing
men an opportunity, by combinations not to purchase, to oblige it to
sell at a rate below the real value of money. This they may the more
easily effect, as the demand for foreign commodities is much less than
formerly, on account of the general spirit of parsimony which has
obtained from necessity, and the manufactures carried on in private
families for their own use. The greatest part of the country people now
almost entirely clothe themselves.

The public must either sell very cheap, to collect rapidly the
superfluous paper in hopes of raising the value of the remainder; or
it must sell very slow, to preserve the due proportion between the
articles it has for sale and those it wants to buy. By pursuing the
first method, it will soon exhaust its stock at a very considerable
loss, and only give temporary relief to the currency. According to
my principle, though it sells cheap, it must still buy dear; and,
consequently, the money collected cannot remain in the treasury long
enough to preserve the rise in its appreciated state. If it pursues the
second method, the expenditures will be equal to the income; and though
the public will make the natural profits on its goods, as it will lay
up nothing, it will do nothing towards the appreciation.[7]

The farmers have the game in their own hands, and will make it very
difficult to lower the prices of their commodities. For want of
laborers, there is no great superfluity of the most essential articles
raised. These are things of absolute necessity, and must be purchased,
as well by the other classes of society as by the public. The farmers,
on the contrary, if they do not like the price, are not obliged to
sell; because they have almost every necessary within themselves; salt,
and one or two more, excepted; which bear a small proportion to what
is wanted from them; and which they can obtain, by barter, for other
articles equally indispensable. Heavy taxes, it may be said, will
oblige them to sell; but they can pay, with a small part of what they
have, any taxes our legislatures will venture to impose, or would be
able to enforce.

One measure, alone, can counterbalance these advantages of the farmers,
and oblige them to contribute their proper quota to the support of
Government: a tax in kind.

This ought instantly to begin throughout the States. The present
quantity of cash, though nominally enormous, would, in reality, be
found incompetent to domestic circulation, were it not that a great
part of our internal commerce is carried on by barter. For this reason,
it is impossible, by pecuniary taxes, to raise a sum proportioned
to the wants of the State. The money is no longer a general
representative; and when it ceases to be so, the State ought to call
for a portion of the thing represented; or, in other words, to tax in
kind. This will greatly facilitate whatever plan of finance is adopted;
because it will lessen the expenditures in cash, and make it the easier
to retain what is drawn in.

I said the demand for foreign goods is less than it formerly was. I
mean there is not a demand for so large a quantity, which the reasons
already assigned clearly demonstrate; nor are the exorbitant rates now
given any objection to this doctrine. There is an absolute scarcity
even in comparison of the present consumption; and, of course, a demand
for what there is. But should an importation of two millions sterling
take place, the market would be glutted; and there would be no way of
keeping up the price, but by making very slow sales. A less quantity
would stand no chance of calling in the money, and keeping it in long
enough to effect any thing in favor of its credit.

I say nothing about the risk of importation. I do not believe we could
obtain a convoy sufficient to justify our hazarding it without the
precaution of insurance. But with this expedient we are safe; and must
be satisfied with smaller profits for the sake of security.

This is a plan not altogether to be rejected. With prudent management
it might enable us to carry on the war two or three years (which,
perhaps, is as long as it may last); but if we should expect more from
it, the restoration of the currency, we should be disappointed.

The only plan that can preserve the currency, is one that will make
it the _immediate_ interest of the moneyed men to co-operate with
Government in its support. This country is in the same predicament in
which France was previous to the famous Mississippi scheme, projected
by Mr. Law. Its paper money, like ours, had dwindled to nothing; and no
efforts of the Government could revive it, because the people had lost
all confidence in its ability. Mr. Law, who had much more penetration
than integrity, readily perceived, that no plan could succeed which
did not unite the interest and credit of rich individuals with those
of the State; and upon this, he framed the idea of his project, which,
so far, agreed in principle with the Bank of England. The foundation
was good, but the superstructure too vast. The proprietors aimed at
unlimited wealth, and the Government itself expected too much; which
was the cause of the ultimate miscarriage of the scheme, and of all the
mischiefs that befel the kingdom in consequence.

It will be our wisdom to select what is good in this plan, and in any
others that have gone before us; avoiding their defects and excesses.
Something on a similar principle in America, will alone accomplish the
restoration of paper credit, and establish a permanent fund for the
future exigencies of Government.

Article I. The plan I would propose, is that of an American Bank,
instituted by authority of Congress for ten years, under the
denomination of The Bank of the United States. II. A foreign loan
makes a necessary part of the plan; but this I am persuaded we can
obtain, if we pursue the proper measures. I shall suppose it to amount
to two millions of pounds sterling. This loan to be thrown into the
Bank as a part of its stock.

III. A subscription to be opened for two hundred millions of dollars;
and the subscribers erected into a Company, to be called The
Company of the Bank of the United States.

IV. The Government to guarantee this subscription money to the
proprietors, at the rate of one for twenty; that is, to engage, at the
dissolution of the Bank, to make good to them the sum of ten millions
of dollars, in lieu of the two hundred millions subscribed, payable in
Spanish milled dollars, or a currency bona fide equivalent to them.

V. The taxes raised in money annually, to be thrown into stock.[8]

VI. All the remaining paper to be called in (at the option of the
possessor), and bank notes issued in lieu of them, for so much
sterling, payable to the bearer in three months from the date, at two
per cent. per annum interest. A pound sterling to be estimated at
two hundred and sixty-six and two-thirds of the present dollars.[9]
The interest to be punctually paid in specie at the end of the three
months; when it shall be at the choice of the possessor to have the
bank notes renewed, or to receive the sum deposited, in the old paper.

VII. All the money issued from the Bank, to be of the same
denomination, and on the same terms.[10] VIII. The Bank to furnish
Congress with an annual loan of two millions sterling, if they have
occasion for it, at four per cent. interest.

IX. The whole, or such part of the stock as is judged necessary, to be
employed in commerce, in the manner, and on the terms, which shall be
agreed upon, from time to time, between the Company, and a Board of
Trade to be appointed by Congress.

X. The Bank to issue occasionally, by permission of Congress, such
sums as may be thought safe and expedient, in private loans, on good
securities, at six per cent. interest.

XI. The Government to share half the whole stock and profits of the
Bank.

XII. The Bank to be managed by the trustees of the Company, under the
inspection of the Board of Trade,[11] who may have recourse to the
Company books whenever they think proper, to examine the state of its
affairs. The same is done in England, and in other countries where
Banks are established, and is a privilege which the Government has a
right to demand for its own security. It is the more necessary in this
case, from the commercial nature of the Bank.

To give an idea of the advantages

 [Here a part of the manuscript is missing.]

which, having all the operation of money, and of a more advantageous
kind than that which the lenders have parted with, will have all the
efficacy of a payment. It is for this reason they are made to bear
interest: and there can be no doubt, that every man will prefer a
species of money which answers all the purposes of a currency, and
even, when lying idle, brings in a profit to the possessor. The same
consideration will prevent the lenders recalling the old paper, at the
quarterly payments; because they hold a more valuable property instead
of it. The interest is to be paid in specie, as a further temptation,
for which a small sum will suffice. The denomination of the money is
altered; because it will produce a useful illusion. Mankind are much
led by sounds and appearances; and the currency having changed its
name, will seem to have changed its nature.

The Bank will advance bills to the amount of two millions of pounds
sterling to Congress; and, in addition to its stock, will now have a
debt due it of this sum, which is to be considered as so much gained.

 [Here a part of the manuscript is missing.]

 Brought over,                                              7,075,000
 To be deducted,
 Drawn out of circulation, by the sale
   of goods imported,                            4,000,000
 By governmental taxes, supposed to be,          1,000,000--5,000,000
                                                            ---------
 Remaining in circulation the fourth year,                 £2,075,000

This will be less than the preceding, which is occasioned by the
million supposed to be drawn in by taxes.

The national debt, on this plan, will stand thus, at the end of three
years:

 Foreign loan,                                 2,000,000
 Domestic loan, at two millions per annum,     6,000,000
 Interest, at four per cent.,                    320,000
                                               ---------
                                               8,320,000
 Half the value of the Bank,                   7,900,000
                                               ---------
 Balance against the United States,             £420,000

We may, therefore, by means of this establishment, carry on the war
three years, and only incur a debt of four hundred and twenty thousand
pounds over and above the guarantee of the subscription money; which,
however, is not to be paid till the end of ten years.

I have said, in one place, that abstract calculations, in questions
of finance, are not to be relied on: and as the complex operations of
trade are involved in the present plan, I am, myself, diffident of
those flattering results which it presents at every step. I am aware
how apt the imagination is to be heated in projects of this nature,
and to overlook the fallacies which often lurk in first principles.
But when I consider, on the other hand, that the scheme stands on the
firm footing of public and private faith; that it links the interest of
the State in an intimate connection with those of the rich individuals
belonging to it; that it turns the wealth and influence of both into a
commercial channel, for mutual benefit, which must afford advantages
not to be estimated; that there is a defect of circulating medium,
which this plan supplies, by a sort of creative power; converting what
is so produced into a real and efficacious instrument of trade; I
say, when I consider these things, and many more that might be added,
I cannot forbear feeling a degree of confidence in the plan; and, at
least, hoping that it is capable of being improved into something that
will give relief to our finances.

I do not believe, that the advantages will be so great in fact, as
they seem to be in speculation. They will be limited by the means of
commerce which the States produce; and these may not be so extensive
in the beginning as the plan supposes. Beside this, the profits of
the commerce will not be so large, in proportion, after the first or
second year, as during those years: neither will it be possible to
increase the paper credit in the same degree. But the Bank of England
is a striking example, how far this may be carried, when supported by
public authority and private influence. On the other hand, a variety of
secondary expedients may be invented, to enlarge the advantages of the
bank. The whole system of annuities, as practised in England, may be
ingrafted upon it, with such differences as are proper to accommodate
it to our circumstances. The European loan may also be converted into
a European Bank, the interests of which, being interwoven with the
American Bank, may engage rich individuals there in promoting and
extending the plan.

Very beneficial contracts may be made between Government and the
Company, for supplying the army, by which money may be saved to the
public, the army better furnished, and the profits of the bank extended.

I have confined the Bank to the space of ten years; because this will
be long enough to judge of its advantages and disadvantages: and the
latter may be rectified by giving it a new form. I do not suppose it
will ever be discontinued; because it seems to be founded on principles
that must always operate well, and make it the interest, both of
Government and the Company, to uphold it. But I suppose the plan
capable of improvement, which experience will suggest.

I give one half of the whole property of the Bank to the United States;
because it is not only just, but desirable to both parties. The United
States contribute a great part of the stock; their authority is
essential to the existence of the Bank; their credit is pledged for
its support. The plan would ultimately fail, if the terms were too
favorable to the Company, and too hard upon Government. It might be
encumbered with a debt which it could never pay, and be obliged to take
refuge in a bankruptcy. The share which the State has in the profits,
will induce it to grant more ample privileges, without which the trade
of the Company might often be under restrictions injurious to its
success.

It is not, perhaps, absolutely necessary that the sum subscribed
should be so considerable as I have stated it, though the larger the
better. It is only necessary it should be considerable enough to engage
a sufficient number of the principal moneyed men in the scheme. But
Congress must take care to proportion the advantages they give and
receive.

It may be objected, that this plan will be prejudicial to trade, by
making the Government a party with a trading Company; which may be
a temptation to arrogate exclusive privileges, and thereby fetter
that spirit of enterprise and competition, on which the prosperity
of commerce depends. But Congress may satisfy the jealousies on this
head, by a solemn resolution not to grant exclusive privileges, which
alone can make the objection valid. Large trading Companies must be
beneficial to the commerce of a nation, when they are not invested with
these, because they furnish a capital with which the most extensive
enterprises may be undertaken. There is no doubt the establishment
proposed would be very serviceable at this juncture, merely in a
commercial view; for private adventurers are not a match for the
numerous obstacles resulting from the present posture of affairs.
The present plan is the product of some reading on the subjects of
commerce and finance, and of occasional reflections on our particular
situation: but a want of leisure has prevented its being examined in so
many lights, and digested so materially, as its importance requires.
If the outlines are thought worthy of attention, and any difficulties
occur which demand explanation: or if the plan be approved, and the
further thoughts of the writer are desired; a letter directed to James
Montague, Esquire, lodged in the post-office at Morristown, will be a
safe channel of any communications you may think proper to make; and
an immediate answer will be given. Though the writer has reasons which
make him unwilling to be known; if a personal conference with him
should be thought material, he will endeavor to comply.

You will consider this as a hasty production, and excuse the
incorrectnesses with which it abounds.

                                  I am, Sir, very respectfully,
                                  Your most obedient and humble servant.


[3] France owes a debt of near two hundred millions of pounds sterling;
of which about twenty-eight millions is due to Governments and
individuals in the United Provinces.

England owes a debt not much short: of which about thirty millions is
likewise due in the United Provinces.

The United Provinces, themselves, owe a debt of the generality,
of fifty millions sterling besides the particular debts of each
province. Russia, Prussia, Denmark, Sweden, all owe money to the
United Provinces, notwithstanding the assistance of their mines. These
Governments, too, are patterns of economy. Sweden receives a constant
supply from France. The House of Austria is also to be included in the
catalogue. Spain is almost the only considerable European power to be
excepted; but this is to be attributed to that inexhaustible fund of
treasure which she possesses in the mines of South America.

The King of Prussia is one of those potentates the least in debt;
notwithstanding he has a long time made a figure in Europe, much
above what the comparative strength and resources of his kingdom
entitled him to expect. This his superior genius has effected. By a
wise administration, he maintains an army of one hundred and fifty
thousand men, nearly equal to that of France, with one-third of its
people, and less than a third of its riches. This he does by judicious
arrangements; by a rigid economy; and by a species of commerce, which
is carried on, on account of the State. There are several public
manufactories, from which the army is supplied; and by the help of
which, the money paid out with one hand is taken in by the other.

[4] This will appear, by recurring to our expenses in the commencement
of the war, before the money was depreciated. In ’75, which was only
three-fourths of a year, the emissions amounted to seven millions
of dollars: in ’76, to fourteen millions. The war did not begin, in
earnest, till ’76.

[5] This is meant, without employing the assistance of a foreign loan,
and of other expedients beside borrowing and taxing.

[6] This will appear from the plan which will be proposed.

[7] To form an idea of the effect of this plan, let it be supposed that
the goods imported amount to two millions of pounds sterling, and that
these sell at one hundred and fifty pounds in paper, for each pound
sterling. The whole proceeds will be eight hundred millions of dollars:
to these add two hundred millions, raised in taxes. There will then be
in the hands of the public, one thousand millions of dollars; which, at
sixty to one, gives sixteen millions six hundred and sixty-six thousand
six hundred and sixty-six and two-thirds of real dollars. Take the year
’76 for a standard, and suppose fourteen millions of dollars to be
the proper annual expense of the war, which is only two millions six
hundred and sixty-six thousand six hundred and sixty-six and two-thirds
less than the whole amount of the goods and taxes. At this rate, the
plan would do little more than defray the expenses of the war for one
year. But this calculation is not exactly true; because the money would
certainly appreciate, in some degree, by the reduction of its quantity:
yet, as this reduction would not last, at least in the same extent, to
preserve the appreciation; and as, in proportion to the appreciation,
the price of goods must fall, and bring less money in, it is difficult
to say whether it would not ultimately come to the same thing.

[8] The taxes are made to increase every year, for the three years;
because the money in circulation increases, and, consequently, the
people can afford to pay more.

[9] This is sixty paper dollars to one dollar of four shillings and
sixpence sterling; which is the real value of the money. But if it is
apprehended that this may meet with opposition, let the valuation of
the bank notes be the same as the price of European Bills of Exchange.
Other operations must be regulated accordingly.

[10] The reason of this is, to preserve the idea of a Stock, and make
it seem that the old paper is still in existence. But there is danger,
notwithstanding the reasons to the contrary, that there may be a run
upon the bank, from particular causes, which may embarrass it. It is
not probable the old paper will be entirely, though nearly, called out
of circulation: what remains, will appreciate: this may tempt those
who have bank notes, to demand payment on the terms of the original
deposit; without considering that, by bringing too great a quantity
again into circulation, it will again depreciate. The Bank may be
pushed to a very disagreeable extremity by this means. I do not know
whether it may not be advisable to confine the privilege of repayment
to the lenders to the Bank, and make the bills bear interest, payable
every three months, without making the principal demandable. Much may
be said for and against. It is well worth consideration.

[11] This board ought immediately to be established, at all events.
The Royal Council of Commerce, in France, and the subordinate Chambers
in each province, form an excellent institution, and may, in many
respects, serve as a model. Congress have too long neglected to
organize a good scheme of administration, and throw public business
into proper executive departments. For Commerce, I prefer a Board;
but for most other things, single men. We want a Minister of War, a
Minister of Foreign Affairs, a Minister of Finance, and a Minister of
Marine. There is always more decision, more dispatch, more secrecy,
more responsibility, where single men, than where bodies are concerned.
By a plan of this kind, we should blend the advantages of a Monarchy
and of a Republic, in a happy and beneficial union. Men will only
devote their lives and attentions to the mastering a profession, on
which they can build reputation and consequence which they do not share
with others.

If this plan should be approved, Congress ought immediately to appoint
a Minister of Finance, under whatsoever title they think proper,
and charge him with its execution. He ought to be a man of ability,
to comprehend it in all its consequences; and of eloquence, to make
others comprehend and relish it. He ought, beside, to have some general
knowledge of the science. This man ought immediately to address himself
to some of the most sensible moneyed men; and endeavor to convince them
of the utility of the project. These must engage others, and so on,
till a sufficient number is engaged.

Then Congress must establish the Bank, and set it agoing. I know of
no man that has better pretensions than yourself; and I shall be very
happy to hear that Congress have said, “Thou art the man.”

I had like to have omitted one remark, which is, that the subscription
money may be guaranteed, if necessary, at 10 to 1, as a greater
inducement. This will only be twenty millions of dollars, or five
millions of pounds sterling; a cheap bargain to get rid of the
perplexities we labor under, and convert the torrent of ideal money
into a moderate, but sufficient, stream, to supply the real wants of
the State. Congress, no doubt, would be able to borrow enough abroad to
pay this debt, if it should not find better means within itself. But I
shall be much mistaken, if the proprietors will desire to be repaid,
and not prefer continuing the loan to Government on reasonable terms.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                         Amboy, March 17, 1780.

Dear Sir:

I duly received your letter of the fourteenth, and shall not fail, in
conjunction with General St. Clair, to attend to the military object of
it. I am much obliged to your Excellency for the communication of your
Southern advices. The enemy are still in the dark about their fleet and
army gone that way, as we gather from the commissioners. They pretend
to have little European news, though a vessel arrived two or three days
since from England, after ten weeks passage. We send you some late
New-York papers.

The commission has been several days at an end. The enemy, as was
supposed, had no idea of treating on national ground. We are now in
private conversation, and so far not without hopes that the liberation
of our prisoners will be effected on _admissible_ terms. Two or three
days more will probably put an end to the interview. General St. Clair
and Colonel Carrington, beg their respects may be presented to your
Excellency.

                                   I have the honor to be,
                                   Very respectfully and affectionately,
                                   Your Excellency’s most ob’t servant,
                                   Alex. Hamilton.




DU PORTAIL TO HAMILTON.


                                  Philadelphia, 21 March, 1780.

Mon Cher Colonel:

Quoique je compte partir pour le camp dans peu de jours, la crainte
d’être encore retenu plus longtemps que je ne voudrais, (comme je le
suis depuis un mois), me fait prendre le parti de vous écrire quelque
chose qui me semble d’une certaine importance qui me concerne. Hier
j’ai appris qu’il y a une quinzaine de jours hors de la nouvelle
de l’arrivée des Anglais, un membre du Congrès représenta dans le
Congrès, qu’il serait à propos de m’envoyer en Caroline avec la plus
grande hâte. Il fonda sa demande sur les choses avantageuses qu’il
avait entendu dire de moi, etc., etc. Il voulait que le Congrès
me donnât sur le champ des ordres, et que je partisse sans délai.
J’ignore quel est le membre qui a fait cette proposition, seulement
je conjecture que c’est quelque delégué dés Etats du sud. On lui a
répondu, que c’était au _Commandant-en-Chef_ qu’il appartenait de faire
une telle chose, que le Congrès ne pouvait pas savoir s’il n’avait pas
quelque raison de me retenir à son Armée, quoique dans la circonstance
présente, il parut effectivement que je serais plus utile au sud, en
un mot _que l’attention avec laquelle le Commandant-en-Chef veillait
au salut de l’Etat ne permettait pas de douter qu’il n’employât tous
les moyens qui étaient en son pouvoir, et que les circonstances
permettaient_.

Il est très agréable, mon cher Colonel, d’être le sujet d’une aussi
belle phrase, mais je suis fâché que la chose ait tourné ainsi;
je suis aussi très fâché de n’avoir pas su tout cela dans le temps
pour vous le mander. Car il était encore temps alors d’aller dans le
sud; maintenant je ne sais plus que désirer. Cependant hier l’on
nous débitait que des vaisseaux de transport servant de vaisseaux
de guerre étaient arrivés à New-York pour prendre des Renforts; si
cela était si confirmé, il n’y aurait apparence que les Anglais ne se
proposaient pas de commencer leurs opérations avant l’arrivée de ces
Renforts, alors ce serait peut être le cas d’y aller. Je laisse tout
cela à faire à votre prudence, et à votre amitié, vous savez une partie
des raisons que j’ai toujours eu et que j’ai encore de ne point faire
de demande à ce sujet au Général Washington, mais vous savez aussi
combien je désire d’aller en Caroline. S’il y a quelque apparence que
je puisse y arriver à temps, je ne vois pas d’inconvénient à ce que vous
faisiez usage auprès du Géneral de ce qui s’est passé dans le Congrès,
parce que plusieurs membres de Congrès l’ont déjà dit à différentes
personnes.

(Si vous voulez ensuite que je vous parle comme à mon ami, je vous
dirai que j’ai eu lieu de voir que de m’envoyer là bas, aurait fait un
fort bon effet ici, surtout dans le commencement.)

Supposez donc, que notre Géneral jugeât par des circonstances
ultérieures qu’il peut encore être temps de m’y envoyer, comme il ne
faut pas perdre un moment, il serait bon que je ne fusse pas obligé de
retourner au camp. Pour cela il faudrait m’envoyer avec les ordres,
toutes les lettres nécessaires pour le Géneral Lincoln et autres. Vous
savez, mon cher Colonel, ce que je désire à cet égard. Si je vais là-bas,
il faut que mon arrivée soit comme un de ces accidents au théâtre
qui réveille les spectateurs, et redonne de l’activité et de la chaleur
à la pièce, vous m’entendez.

Je crois que dans ce cas le Général doit écrire au Congrès, outre les
raisons qu’il a de m’envoyer pour le prier de me faire donner tous les
moyens nécessaires pour faire diligence.

Enfin, prenez bien garde à ceci, mon cher Colonel, si vous m’envoyez
des ordres, sitôt que cela sera décidé, envoyez chercher Monsieur
de l’Estaing, mon Aide-de-Camp, et dites lui s’il vous plaît de faire
partir sur le champ ma malle et la sienne sur un waggon du quartier
maître, s’il y en a qui partant sur le champ, sinon sur mon propre
waggon: qu’il n’oublie pas surtout mes papiers. Il peut ensuite venir
après lui même et m’apporter les lettres du Général. Il faut qu’il
fasse diligence; je ne puis partir sans différentes choses qui sont
dans ma malle; qu’il se munisse lui même de ce qu’il lui faut. Mon
adresse ici est: Mrs. Sword in Logan Alley, Second-street.

Je ne partirai point d’ici avant lundi prochain afin d’attendre votre
réponse.

                            J’ai l’honneur d’être, mon cher Colonel,
                            Avec le plus parfait attachment,
                            Votre très humble et très obéissant servant,
                            Du Portail.

Col. Hamilton.




SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.


                                   Philadelphia, April 8, 1780.

Dear Sir:

* * * * * * You have been mentioned in private conversation
to go as Secretary to the Embassy at the Court of Versailles;
there is but one obstacle which prevents me from making up my
mind on the subject; that you will know when I have the pleasure
of seeing you. In the mean time revolve the matter in yours.

The pride, the folly, and perhaps, too, the wickedness of some on a
certain floor, combine to frustrate every intention to promote the
public weal, and relieve my amiable Chief from his well-grounded
anxiety; the few that feel for him, and are alarmed at the critical
state of our public affairs, in every department, within as well as
without, have not been able to carry a measure which they believed
would have had salutary consequences. They have now proposed that a
Committee should repair to head quarters, invested conjointly with
the General, with a kind of dictatorial power, in order to afford
satisfaction to the army, and to arrange the great departments
thereof. Livingston, Elsworth, and Matthews, are appointed to prepare
Instructions. Some good may result, if gentlemen who love the General,
are not jealous of the army, and of a generous turn are sent; but
should General Sherman be at the head of the Triumviri, the General
will be tormented with a thousand little propositions which Roger has
thrown together, and which he entitles a System. I shall not be sent on
this business, “because, it would not be proper to send a person who,
as he has been in the army, will probably have a bias in its favor.”
This reasoning is conclusive.

Beware of communications to this quarter, which you would not wish the
world to know; this hint will prevent you from writing but by a safe
hand.

It is amusing to observe the effect Sir Harry Clinton’s private No.
15 has. The Southernites have their spirits much raised by it. The
Northerns look big, and the enemy’s distress is owing to their virtue
and exertions. They wish for the 12,000 Hessians to have the pleasure
of devouring them. The war is to be at an end next winter, and as they
wish to conclude handsomely, they will insist that their constituents
complete their quotas without delay, and furnish aids of money, &c. En
verité there are only two or three of the club who believe the letter
spurious, but two who are decidedly of that opinion.

My best wishes to all at head quarters.

                                        I am, dear Sir, sincerely yours,
                                        Ph. Schuyler.

Col. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.


                                                           May 10, 1780.

Dear Baron:

General Knox, in conversation, has observed to the General, that
instead of sending to Philadelphia for the fifteen hundred arms
mentioned in your letter of the sixth, and sending those here to that
place to be fitted, it would be a great saving of expense, in the
article of transportation, to have the bayonets and accoutrements
brought on without the arms, and fitted to those now here; which can
easily be done at the Park. The question is, if the arms here have no
other defect than want of bayonets. The General will be glad to know
what you think of General Knox’s proposal. It seems to him eligible,
unless there are reasons he is not acquainted with.

If there are any other articles you wish to have sent for (the General
thinks you mentioned something of the kind to him), he will be glad to
know what they are.

We have heard from the Marquis. He will be here at dinner. Will you
dine with us also? The General requests it.

                                     I have the honor to be, dear Baron,
                                     Your very humble servant,
                                     Alex. Hamilton, A. D. C.




HAMILTON TO DUANE.


                                                           May 14, 1780.

My Dear Sir:

This will be handed you by the Marquis, who brings us very important
intelligence. The General communicates the substance of it in a private
letter to you, and proposes a measure which all deem essential. For
God’s sake, my dear sir, engage Congress to adopt it, and come to a
speedy decision. We have not a moment to lose. Were we to improve every
instant of the interval, we should have too little time for what we
have to do. The expected succor may arrive in the beginning of June,
in all probability it will not be later than the middle. In the last
case we have not a month to make our preparations in, and in this short
period we must collect men, form magazines, and do a thousand things of
as much difficulty as importance. The propriety of the measure proposed
is so obvious, that an hour ought to decide it, and if any new members
are to come, they ought to set out instantly with all expedition for
head quarters. Allow me, my dear sir, to give you a hint. The General
will often be glad to consult the Committee on particular points, but
it will be inexpedient that he should be obliged to do it oftener than
he thinks proper, or any peculiar case may require. Their powers should
be formed accordingly. It is the essence of many military operations,
that they should be trusted to as few as possible.

The Marquis has a title to all the love of all America; but you know he
has a thousand little whims to satisfy; one of these he _will have_ me
to write to some friend in Congress about. He is desirous of having the
Captain of the frigate in which he came complimented; and gives several
pretty instances of his punctuality and disinterestedness. He wishes
Congress to pass some resolutions of thanks, and to recommend him to
their Minister in France, to be recommended to the French Court. The
first of these is practicable. The last I think might have an officious
appearance. The _essential_ services the Marquis has rendered America
in France, give him a claim for all that can be done with propriety;
but Congress must not commit themselves.

Again, my dear sir, I must entreat you to use the spur on the present
occasion. The fate of America is perhaps suspended on the issue; if we
are found unprepared, it must disgrace us in the eyes of all Europe,
besides defeating the good intentions of our allies, and losing the
happiest opportunity we ever have had to save ourselves. Adieu, my dear
Sir.

Believe me to be, with the truest respect and affection,

                                               Your most obed’t servant,
                                               A. Hamilton.

  Hon. James Duane, Philadelphia.
  Honored by Marquis De Lafayette.




HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.


                                                           June 7, 1780.

Dear Baron:

I am commanded by the General to inform you, that the enemy are out in
considerable force; and, by the last advice, were advancing this way.
We are going to meet them. The General is just set out for Chatham, and
will be happy to meet you there.

                                          Yours, respectfully,
                                          A. Hamilton, A. D. C.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                                           June 8, 1780.

Sir:

I have seen the enemy. Those in view I calculate at about three
thousand: there may be, and probably enough are, others out of sight.
They have sent all their horse to the other side, except about fifty
or sixty. Their baggage, it is agreed on all hands, has also been sent
across, and their wounded. It is not ascertained that any of their
infantry have passed to the other side. There are four or five hundred
on the opposite point; but it is uncertain whether they are those who
went from this side, or those who were on Staten Island. I rather
suppose the former.

Different conjectures may be made. The present movement may be
calculated to draw us down and betray us into an action. They may have
desisted from their intention of passing till night, for fear of our
falling upon their rear. I believe this is the case: for as they have
but few boats, it would certainly be a delicate manœuvre to cross in
our face. We are taking measures to watch their motions to-night, as
closely as possible. An incessant but _very light_ skirmishing. Very
few boats, not more than enough to carry three or four hundred men at a
time. It is likely more will come down this evening.

                                I have the honor to be,
                                Your Excellency’s most obedient servant,
                                Alex. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO CHEVALIER DE TERNAY.


                                Au Cap Henry, le 13 Juin, 1780.

Monsieur le Chevalier:

Je suis envoyé par le Général Washington au Cap Henry pour y attendre
votre escadre et vous remettre ainsi qu’à Monsieur le Comte de
Rochambau, les dépêches de Monsieur le Marquis de La Fayette--ces
dépêches, Monsieur le Chevalier, contiennent le plan d’opérations que
le Général Washington a l’honneur de vous proposer, la situation des
ennemies et la nôtre relativement aux forces respectives des deux
parties, aux points occupés, aux moyens de subsistance et cetéra; tous
les changements qui pouvraient survenir sur ces objets doivent m’être
communiqués, afin qu’à votre arrivée vous puissiez avoir sous les yeux
le plus de données possibles. Les mêmes détails vous attendent à Rhode
Island, et si vous ne devez les reçevoir qu’après être arrivé, il est
presque indifférent, Monsieur le Chevalier, que votre escadre atterisse
à Rhode Island ou au Cap Henry; mais il y a des circonstances qui, si
elles vous étaient connues, tendraient peut être à vous déterminer
plutôt pour l’un de ces points que pour l’autre, ou même pour un
troisième point que vos instructions n’ont pu prévoir. C’est pour vous
rendre compte de ces circonstances que je saisis l’occasion du fier
Rodrique; heureux si, dans une conjoncture où les moments sont d’une si
grande importance, cette lettre peut anticiper de quelques jours vos
dispositions.

1º. Par le plan proposé à vous, Monsieur le Chevalier, et à Monsieur
le Comte de Rochambau, les efforts combinés de l’armée Française et
Americaine doivent se porter sur New-York, et vous êtes instamment prié
de vous rendre immédiatement à Sandy Hook.

2º. Suivant les informations qui m’ont été récemment fournies par
le Gouverneur de la Virginie, la ville de Charlestown est prise; les
ennemis embarquent une partie des troupes qui en ont fait la Conquête;
et d’après la certitude où nous sommes que la destination de votre
escadre leur est connue, il semble que cet embarquement pourrait bien
avoir pour objet de renforcer la garnison de New-York.

3º. La somme de leurs forces navales sur ce continent se borne à trois
vaisseaux de ligne, un de 50 canons, deux de 44, et quelques frégates à
Charlestown; un vaisseau de 74 et quelques frégates, sortis de New-York
depuis trois semaines et dont nous ignorons la destination.

Ainsi, Monsieur le Chevalier, la première de ces considérations vous
invite à Sandy Hook; la seconde réclame votre atterrage sur un point
d’où vous puissiez être en mesure d’intercepter les Secours destinés
pour New-York, et la troisième vous offre un terme de comparaison entre
la plus grande force qui puisse escorter ces secours, et celle avec
laquelle vous pouvez les attaquer. Il est encore à observer qu’excepté
les trois vaisseaux de ligne, tous les autres (à Charlestown) sont dans
le port, et que les plus gros n’en peuvent sortir, qu’après avoir été
allégés, et avec la concurrence d’une haute marée et d’un vent propice.

Telles sont, Monsieur le Chevalier, les choses dont ma mission a pour
objet de vous rendre compte, et comme il est de toute importance que
ces informations vous parviennent le plus tôt possible, j’ai cru ne pas
devoir négliger la probabilité, qui s’offre de les faire devancer votre
arrivée.

En supposant, Monsieur le Chevalier, que le fier Rodrique vous
rencontre et que vous jugiez à propos de vous rendre en droiture
à Sandy Hook, il est un moyen de faire que les dépâches qui vous
attendent à Rhode Island et du Cap Henry vous parviennent aussi
promptement qui si vous aviez atterri à l’un de ces deux points: ce
serait de dépêcher, vers l’un ou l’autre, l’un de vos plus légers
vaisseaux qui recevrait à son bord l’officier chargé de ces dépêches,
et vous irait rejoindre vers Sandy Hook, où vraisemblablement il se
rendrait aussitôt que votre flotte, ou du moins beaucoup plus tôt que
les réponses de Général Washington ou de Monsieur le Marquis de La
Fayette, aux lettres qui leur annonceraient votre arrivée.

Si le Cap Henry était le point choisi, j’oserais vous prier, Monsieur
le Chevalier, afin d’éviter tous délais, d’ordonner qu’à la vue, du
signal que vous savez, le vaisseau y réponde par un signal contraire,
je veux dire en avertissant la position des pavillons; qu’il envoie
sa chaloupe à terre avec un officier muni des mots de reconnaissance;
que cet officier me donne la première partie de ces mots et reçoive
de moi la seconde. Par là je crois, Monsieur le Chevalier, que toute
possibilité de surprise est sauvée, de part et d’autre, sans qu’il y
ait un seul instant de perdre par le Cérémonial de la reconnaissance.

                                                   Je suis, &c. &c. &c.
                                                   A. Hamilton.

A Monsieur le Chevalier de Ternay.




HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.


                                       Whippany, June 25, 1780.

Dear Baron:

The enemy, the day before yesterday, made a forward movement to
Springfield, which they burnt, and retired to Elizabethtown Point. The
same evening they crossed over to Staten Island; and there are a great
many concurring circumstances which make it probable we shall next
hear of them on the North River. As you are at West Point, the General
wishes you to remain there until the present appearances come to some
result. He has confidence in your judgment, and wishes you to give your
advice and assistance to the commanding officer. As you have no command
in the post, you can only do this in a private friendly way: but I dare
say General Howe will be happy to consult you. You will consider this
as a private letter, in which I rather convey you the General’s wishes
than his commands.

All the army is in march toward you, and will be at Pompton this
evening.

                                   I have the honor to be,
                                   Very respectfully and affectionately,
                                   Your humble servant,
                                   Alex. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.


                          Head-Quarters, Ramapo, June 30, 1780.

Agreeably to your request, my dear Baron, I communicated your project
to the General. Happily the inactivity of the enemy has given us time
to make dispositions which render the calling out of the militia
unnecessary; and the whole has been accordingly countermanded.

The General requests that when you have completed the object of your
errand in your department, and put things in train, you will rejoin the
army.

I wrote you a line from Whippany, of which you made no mention.

                                          I have the honor to be, yours,
                                          A. H.




HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.


                                  Head-Quarters, July 23, 1780.

I have received, my dear Baron, your two letters of the sixteenth and
eighteenth. On the formation of the Light Infantry, the General has
already written to you. I presume it will be, ultimately, nearly as you
have proposed.

Smith set out, some days since, to join you. Bradford, I am told, is
undecided about entering into the office. Col. Scammel has promised
to bring him to me; and if he accepts, we will forward him. I believe
Prescott will be appointed in the Light Infantry. _Entre nous_, ’tis
not easy to find good Majors for this corps in the Massachusetts Line;
and as it will act a good deal with the French troops, we wish it (for
this additional reason) to be well officered. Prescott will answer
the purpose: but he is not yet to know that he is in contemplation.
We shall not long continue in our present position. The distinctions
of departments are an old story, which now do not exist except with
respect to South Carolina. You are with a detachment of the main army.

I dare say all you are doing will be found right. I shall join my
_beau-pere_ to save you from the cord. The arrangement for your
department was unfortunately sent to Congress soon after you went
from here; with the most pressing instances to determine upon it
without delay. We have heard nothing of it since. We have repeated our
_prayers_ and _exhortations_. If we get no answer in three or four
days, we must determine for ourselves.

Major Francis is returned from Philadelphia; but I have not seen him
since the arrival of your letters. I will move the inquiry you wish,
when I see him. Can you do any thing for him in your department?

A severe stroke upon us, is, that our arms, expected from France, are
not arrived. I do not know how we shall be able to arm our recruits.

Graves sailed from the Hook the nineteenth. We had been playing off and
on two days.

Adieu, my dear Baron, and believe me always, with the most respectful
attachment,

                                                    Your humble servant,
                                                    A. H.




BAUMAN TO HAMILTON.


                                   West Point, August 13, 1780.

Dear Sir:

I cannot help laying before you a few of my thoughts, which lately
have engrossed my whole attention, on the review of our changeable
government at West Point. However, I hope you will make no other use
of them but such as may be of advantage; and whatever may be improper,
or improperly stated, impute to my inability only: and there you
will please to let it rest, and take in good part what I shall say,
as it proceeds from a zeal of affection to you, and from a regard to
the cause I am engaged in. On this consideration you will excuse me,
if any where I should seem to exceed those bounds which custom has
prescribed to subalterns, when they treat of any thing, or adopt modes,
to their superiors.

A continual change of commanding officers, or commandants, is, in my
humble opinion, injurious to this post, and hurtful to the military
duty, so absolutely requisite to be performed, and preserved in a
garrison. As there is no nation at war which pursues the like mode
excepting us; I am therefore induced, not only from this consideration,
but from weighty experience during my station at this post, to offer
an opinion of its impropriety, and bad consequences. The visible ill
it creates; the damage to innumerable things; the irregularity it
continually causes; and lastly, the total loss of the many thousands
which have been, and daily are, expended on this national fabric, which
inevitably must fall to pieces, unless an officer is fixed to this
post (and who ought to be a competent judge of fortifications, and a
military man), are matters which, I think, demand consideration.

A Town-Major, and a good Barrack-Master, are as necessary here, as
the necessaries of life are. The former to regulate the duty and to
keep up discipline in this jurisdiction: the latter to take care of
the buildings, which must otherwise be destroyed. The next thing which
falls to our attention, is the public provision, which has been, and
daily is, exposed here to be lost, to be stolen, and to be damaged, for
want of sufficient shelter and proper repositories. The troops have
suffered, and still suffer, from these and other causes. They have
been cheated in weights, in measure, and in their scanty allowance of
fatigue rum; which I can attest, by being appointed, after my having
represented the matter to General M’Dougall, to inspect into some of
those abuses. Notwithstanding the many thousands of boards which came
here, there are not sufficient for barracks, bunks, etc. For as fast
as one thing is built up, another is torn down again. There is not,
in all this garrison, a proper guard-house for the conveniency of
soldiers, nor for the security of the criminals. No powder magazine,
nor a store for the reception and reserve of the implements of war. In
short, the whole appears, at present, under the care of ungovernable
and undisciplined militia, like a wild Tartar’s camp, instead of that
shining fortification all America thinks not only an insurmountable
barrier against the incursion of its enemy, but likewise an easy
defence in case of an unforeseen disaster of its army.

However, to return to my subject. The importance of those heads already
mentioned, and their connection with those preceding, will, I hope,
obtain your pardon for the digression into which they have led me; and
to your discretion I shall leave what I state.

In a letter I wrote to General Knox some time last winter, among many
things I had to say concerning the ordnance and myself, I made this
remark, to wit: “That relieving of an officer from a garrison, is not
like a relief in the field: for an officer who knows himself to be
relieved, will leave many things undone for the next to do; which I
have seen, heard, and experienced. Beside, after once every thing is to
rights, the men then ought to desist from labor, and exercise the guns.
But new commanding officers have chiefly new systems of defence, which
add labor to labor, and nothing will be formed systematically.”

I have already stated these and more things minutely to the general
officers here, who all agreed in their validity and propriety. But
they, being all liable to immediate removal, there cannot be any thing
formed into a permanent and regular system. Moreover, I have been
informed, that owing to the mismanagement of their predecessors, they
were obliged, after they had taken the command, to hunt for materials
in order to build their own systems; and to issue orders upon orders,
to acquaint themselves with those persons who have, as it were, in
keeping, the several branches which flow into this department.

And let me once more, in confidence, assure you, that I suffer
incessant pain from the sad state this garrison is in. To rectify
defects, my dear sir, when roused to arms, can never be attainable.
Therefore let me beg you to assist in adopting some plan which may be
soldierly, for the good of the service: which, however, can be done
in no other manner, but such as I have hinted to you. For let General
Arnold have all the sagacity imaginable, it will take him some time
to get himself well acquainted with the position and defence of this
post; especially as there is not one single Continental officer left
here who can in any way assist him. Every thing seems new here; and the
very engineer is transferred from hence, on whom he, in some measure,
could have depended for information, with regard to the weakest and
strongest parts of this fortress. And I have not yet told you the one
hundredth part of what I have to say upon some of these subjects; but I
shall finish with prognosticating, that should ever capriciousness hold
sway here, it may prove fatal to this post.

                                            I am, with due respect, Sir,
                                            Your most humble servant,
                                            S. Bauman,
                                            Major of Artillery.




DE MARBOIS TO HAMILTON.


                                   Philadelphia, 21 Aout, 1780.

Je viens de recevoir mon cher Colonel votre lettre du 17 de ce mois.
Vous m’y parlez de mes Frères comme si vous étiez sûr qu’ils sont en
effet prisonniers. Avez-vous sur cet article plus de connaissance que
je n’en ai, on m’avez-vous déjà écrit à ce sujet quelque lettre qui ne
me serait point parvenue. Je vais écrire à M. de Ternay à ce sujet,
mais en attendant je vous prie de vouloir bien me communiquer tous les
éclaircissements que vous aurez pu vous procurer, et d’être persuadé
que rien ne me touche plus que de leur procurer de soulagement s’ils
sont en effet entre les mains de l’ennemi.

Si vous avez quelques nouvelles dernières touchant l’embarcation que
M. le Général Clinton prépare, je vous prie de vouloir bien m’en
instruire, cet article étant de la plus grande importance pour nous. Je
vous embrasse de tout mon cœur.

                                                    De Marbois.

Col. Hamilton.




WILLIAMS TO HAMILTON.


                                 Hillsborough, August 30, 1780.

Dear Hamilton:

About the twenty-third instant, I wrote my friend Harrison from
Salisbury, giving him a very hasty particular account of the defeat
of General Gates’s army at Sutton’s, near Campden, the sixteenth
instant. We were truly unfortunate, and completely routed. The infamous
cowardice of the militia of Virginia and North Carolina, gave the enemy
every advantage over our few regular troops, whose firm opposition
and gallant behavior have gained them the applause, as well of our
successful foes, as of our runaway friends. If I mentioned to Col.
Harrison the loss of two howitzers, I was mistaken. We had eight
pieces of light artillery, with six ammunition wagons, which, with the
greatest part of our baggage, were lost.

Our retreat was the most mortifying that could have happened. Those who
escaped the dangers of the field, knew not where to find protection:
the wounded found no relief from the inhabitants, who were immediately
in arms against us; and many of our fugitive officers and men were
disarmed by those faithless villains, who had flattered us with
promises of joining us against the enemy. The tories are now assembling
in different parts of the country; and there is actually a sort of
partisan war waged between them and the whigs of this country.

The greatest part of our baggage was plundered by those who first left
the field. The enemy took a part; and much of what escaped them, has
been pillaged by the inhabitants on the retreat. The wagon horses have
been stolen, and frequently taken from the drivers; and some of those
desperate rascals have been daring enough to fire upon parties of our
regular troops many miles from the place of action.

General Gates used the utmost expedition in getting from the lost field
to this place. As this step is unaccountable to me, you must expect to
know the reason another time, and from better authority. An unfortunate
General usually loses the confidence of his army; and this is much the
case with us at present. However, I suppose every thing necessary will
be done, in justification of the steps that have been taken, and then
all will be understood. Beside my ignorance, there is another reason
for my silence on this subject. The General is extremely mortified at
the disappointment his hopes have met with; and I think it ungenerous
to oppress dejected spirits by a premature censure.

The legislature of this State is now sitting at this place, and
devising means of defending the country. The General has exhibited
estimates (he informs me) of the supplies wanting to carry on the
campaign, both to the legislature of this State, and to Virginia; and
hopes they will be furnished. The officers of North Carolina talk
confidently of re-embodying a great number of militia. General Stephens
had collected about eight hundred of the Virginia militia at this place
since the action. But I am sorry to add, at least half that number have
deserted. The Maryland Division, including the Delaware regiment, will,
I hope, muster six hundred when all are collected. Part are now here: a
party are with General Smallwood at Ellis’s Ferry, Adkin river; and a
small party with Major Anderson, who General Smallwood left some time
at Charlotte, to receive the fugitives as they arrived. But this is the
place of general rendezvous.

From the best accounts I can get, Lord Cornwallis had with him, on
the day of battle, the seventy-first, sixty-third, thirty-third, and
twenty-third British regiments; a corps of Hessians, Tarlton’s legion,
and some new levies, amounting to about three thousand men. Our numbers
were very little greater; and our force will not be imagined so great,
by those who are informed of our long march in a barren country, with
very little other subsistence than a short allowance of fresh beef,
green corn, apples, and peaches.

As soon as I recover from a relaxation of spirits, which is all my
present complaint, I will write you again, and inform you that we are
resolved not to despair, but bear our fortunes like veterans in the
South; while you, like heroes in the North, win and wear the laurels
of the present campaign. Present my most respectful compliments to
the General, whom I love; to all my friends at head quarters and in
camp. Not a man among you have been generous enough to write a single
sentence to

                                        Your sincere friend and servant,
                                        O. H. Williams.

I mentioned the surprise of General Sumpter’s party, which happened the
sixteenth instant, in my last.




HAMILTON TO JAMES DUANE.


                               Liberty Pole, September 8, 1780.

Dear Sir:

Agreeably to your request, and my promise, I sit down to give you my
ideas of the defects of our present system, and the changes necessary
to save us from ruin. They may, perhaps, be the reveries of a
projector, rather than the sober views of a politician. You will judge
of them, and make what use you please of them.

The fundamental defect is a want of power in Congress. It is hardly
worth while to show in what this consists, as it seems to be
universally acknowledged; or to point out how it has happened, as the
only question is how to remedy it. It may, however, be said, that it
has originated from three causes; an excess of the spirit of liberty,
which has made the particular States show a jealousy of all power not
in their own hands; and this jealousy has led them to exercise a right
of judging in the last resort of the measures recommended by Congress,
and of acting according to their own opinions of their propriety,
or necessity; a diffidence, in Congress, of their own powers, by
which they have been timid and indecisive in their resolutions:
constantly making concessions to the States, till they have scarcely
left themselves the shadow of power; a want of sufficient means at
their disposal to answer the public exigencies, and of vigor to draw
forth those means; which have occasioned them to depend on the
States individually, to fulfil their engagements with the army; the
consequence of which, has been to ruin their influence and credit with
the army, to establish its dependence on each State separately, rather
than _on them_, that is, rather than on the whole collectively.

It may be pleaded, that Congress had never any definite powers granted
them, and, of course, could exercise none, could do nothing more
than recommend. The manner in which Congress was appointed, would
warrant, and the public good required, that they should have considered
themselves as vested with full power _to preserve the republic from
harm_. They have done many of the highest acts of sovereignty, which
were always cheerfully submitted to: The declaration of independence;
the declaration of war: the levying of an army; creating a navy;
emitting money; making alliances with foreign powers; appointing a
dictator, etc., etc. All these implications of a complete sovereignty
were never disputed, and ought to have been a standard for the whole
conduct of administration. Undefined powers are discretionary powers,
limited only by the object for which they were given; in the present
case, the independence and freedom of America. The Confederation
made no difference; for as it has not been generally adopted, it had
no operation. But from what I recollect of it, Congress have even
descended from the authority which the spirit of that act gives them;
while the particular States have no further attended to it, than as it
suited their pretensions and convenience. It would take too much time
to enter into particular instances, each of which separately might
appear inconsiderable; but united, are of serious import. I only mean
to remark, not to censure.

But the Confederation itself is defective, and requires to be altered.
It is neither fit for war nor peace. The idea of an uncontrollable
sovereignty, in each State, over its internal police, will defeat
the other powers given to Congress, and make our union feeble and
precarious. There are instances without number, where Acts, necessary
for the general good, and which rise out of the powers given to
Congress, must interfere with the internal police of the States;
and there are as many instances in which the particular States, by
arrangements of internal police, can effectually, though indirectly,
counteract the arrangements of Congress. You have already had examples
of this, for which I refer you to your own memory.

The Confederation gives the States, individually, too much influence in
the affairs of the army. They should have nothing to do with it. The
entire formation and disposal of our military forces, ought to belong
to Congress. It is an essential cement of the union: and it ought to
be the policy of Congress, to destroy all ideas of State attachments
in the army, and make it look up wholly to them. For this purpose, all
appointments, promotions, and provisions, whatsoever, ought to be made
by them. It may be apprehended that this may be dangerous to liberty.
But nothing appears more evident to me, than that we run much greater
risk of having a weak and disunited federal government, than one which
will be able to usurp upon the rights of the people.

Already some of the lines of the army would obey their States in
opposition to Congress, notwithstanding the pains we have taken to
preserve the unity of the army. If any thing would hinder this, it
would be the personal influence of the General; a melancholy and
mortifying consideration.

The forms of our State constitutions, must always give them great
weight in our affairs, and will make it too difficult to bend them to
the pursuit of a common interest; too easy to oppose whatever they do
not like: and to form partial combinations subversive of the general
one. There is a wide difference between our situation, and that of an
empire under one simple form of government, distributed into counties,
provinces, or districts, which have no legislatures, but merely
magistratical bodies, to execute the laws of a common sovereign. Here
the danger is, that the sovereign will have too much power, and oppress
the parts of which it is composed. In our case, that of an empire
composed of confederated States; each with a government completely
organized within itself, having all the means to draw its subjects to
a close dependence on itself; the danger is directly the reverse. It
is, that the common sovereign will not have power sufficient to unite
the different members together, and direct the common forces to the
interest and happiness of the whole.

The leagues among the old Grecian republics are a proof of this. They
were continually at war with each other; and, for want of union, fell
a prey to their neighbors. They frequently held general councils; but
their resolutions were no further observed, than as they suited the
interests and inclinations of all the parties; and, at length, they
sunk entirely into contempt.

The Swiss Cantons are another proof of the doctrine. They have had
wars with each other, which would have been fatal to them, had not
the different powers, in their neighborhood, been too jealous of one
another, and too equally matched, to suffer either to take advantage of
their quarrels. That they have remained so long united at all, is to be
attributed to their weakness, to their poverty, and to the causes just
mentioned. These ties will not exist in America; a little time hence,
some of the States will be powerful empires; and we are so remote from
other nations, that we shall have all the leisure and opportunity we
can wish, to cut each other’s throats.

The Germanic corps might also be cited as an example in favor of the
position.

The United Provinces may be thought to be one against it. But the
family of the Stadtholders, whose authority is interwoven with the
whole Government, has been a strong link of union between them.
Their physical necessities, and the habits founded upon them, have
contributed to it.

Each province is too inconsiderable, by itself, to undertake any thing.
An analysis of their present constitutions, would show that they have
many ties which would not exist in ours; and that they are by no means
a proper model for us.

Our own experience should satisfy us. We have felt the difficulty of
drawing out the resources of the country, and inducing the States to
combine in equal exertions for the common cause.

The ill success of our last attempt is striking. Some have done a
great deal; others little, or scarcely any thing. The disputes about
boundaries, etc., testify how flattering a prospect we have of future
tranquillity, if we do not frame, in time, a confederacy capable
of deciding the differences, and compelling the obedience of the
respective members.

The Confederation, too, gives the power of the purse too entirely
to the State Legislatures. It should provide perpetual funds, in
the disposal of Congress, by a land tax, poll tax, or the like. All
imposts upon commerce ought to be laid by Congress, and appropriated
to their use. For, without certain revenues, a Government can have no
power. That power which holds the purse-strings absolutely, must rule.
This seems to be a medium which, without making Congress altogether
independent, will tend to give reality to its authority.

Another defect in our system, is want of method and energy in the
administration. This has partly resulted from the other defect; but
in a great degree from prejudice, and the want of a proper executive.
Congress have kept the power too much in their own hands, and have
meddled too much with details of every sort. Congress is, properly, a
deliberative corps; and it forgets itself when it attempts to play the
executive. It is impossible such a body, numerous as it is, constantly
fluctuating, can ever act with sufficient decision, or with system.
Two-thirds of the members, one half the time, cannot know what has
gone before them, or what connection the subject in hand has to what
has been transacted on former occasions. The members who have been
more permanent, will only give information that promotes the side they
espouse in the present case; and will as often mislead as enlighten.
The variety of business must distract; and the proneness of every
assembly to debate, must at all times delay.

Lately, Congress, convinced of these inconveniences, have gone into the
measure of appointing Boards. But this is, in my opinion, a bad plan.

A single man, in each department of the administration, would be
greatly preferable. It would give us a chance of more knowledge, more
activity, more responsibility, and, of course, more zeal and attention.
Boards partake of a part of the inconveniences of larger assemblies.
Their decisions are slower, their energy less, their responsibility
more diffused. They will not have the same abilities and knowledge as
an administration by single men. Men of the first pretensions will not
so readily engage in them; because they will be less conspicuous, of
less importance, have less opportunity of distinguishing themselves.
The members of Boards will take less pains to inform themselves and
arrive to eminence, because they have fewer motives to do it. All
these reasons conspire to give a preference to the plan of vesting the
great executive departments of the State in the hands of individuals.
As these men will be, of course, at all times under the direction of
Congress, we shall blend the advantages of a Monarchy and Republic in
our constitution.

A question has been made, whether single men could be found to
undertake these offices. I think they could; because there would be
then every thing to excite the ambition of candidates. But, in order
to this, Congress, by their manner of appointing them, and the line of
duty marked out, must show that they are in earnest in making these
officers, officers of real trust and importance.

I fear a little vanity has stood in the way of these arrangements, as
though they would lessen the importance of Congress, and leave them
nothing to do. But they would have precisely the same rights and powers
as heretofore, happily disencumbered of the detail. They would have to
inspect the conduct of their ministers, deliberate upon their plans,
originate others for the public good; only observing this rule: that
they ought to consult their ministers, and get all the information and
advice they could from them, before they entered into any new measures,
or made changes in the old.

A third defect is, the fluctuating constitution of our army. This
has been a pregnant source of evil: all our military misfortunes,
three-fourths of our civil embarrassments, are to be ascribed to it.
The General has so fully enumerated the mischiefs of it, in a letter of
the      , to Congress, that I could only repeat what he has said, and
will therefore refer you to that letter.

The imperfect and unequal provision made for the army, is a fourth
defect, which you will find delineated in the same letter. Without a
speedy change, the army must dissolve. It is now a mob, rather than an
army; without clothing, without pay, without provision, without morals,
without discipline. We begin to hate the country for its neglect of
us. The country begin to hate us for our oppressions of them. Congress
have long been jealous of us. We have now lost all confidence in them,
and give the worst construction to all they do. Held together by the
slenderest ties, we are ripening for a dissolution.

The present mode of supplying the army, by State purchases, is not one
of the least considerable defects of our system. It is too precarious
a dependence; because the States will never be sufficiently impressed
with our necessities. Each will make its own ease a primary object; the
supply of the army a secondary one. The variety of channels through
which the business is transacted, will multiply the number of persons
employed, and the opportunities of embezzling public money. From the
popular spirit on which most of the Governments turn, the State agents
will be men of less character and ability: nor will there be so rigid
a responsibility among them, as there might easily be among those in
the employ of the Continent; of course, not so much diligence, care, or
economy. Very little of the money raised in the several States, will go
into the Continental treasury, on pretence, that it is all exhausted in
providing the quotas of supplies; and the public will be without funds
for the other demands of Government. The expense will be ultimately
much greater, and the advantages much smaller. We actually feel the
insufficiency of this plan; and have reason to dread, under it, a
ruinous extremity of want.

These are the principal defects, in the present system, that now occur
to me. There are many inferior ones, in the organization of particular
departments, and many errors of administration, which might be pointed
out; but the task would be troublesome and tedious: and if we had once
remedied those I have mentioned, the others would not be attended with
much difficulty.

I shall now propose the remedies, which appear to me applicable to
our circumstances, and necessary to extricate our affairs from their
present deplorable situation. The first step must be, to give Congress
powers competent to the public exigencies. This may happen in two ways:
one, by resuming and exercising the discretionary powers I suppose to
have been originally vested in them, for the safety of the States;
and resting their conduct on the candor of their countrymen, and
the necessity of the conjuncture: the other, by calling immediately
a Convention of all the States, with full authority to conclude
finally upon a General Confederation; stating to them, beforehand,
explicitly, the evils arising from a want of power in Congress, and
the impossibility of supporting the contest on its present footing;
that the delegates may come, possessed of proper sentiments, as well
as proper authority, to give efficacy to the meeting. Their commission
should include a right of vesting Congress with the whole, or a
proportion, of the unoccupied lands, to be employed for the purpose of
raising a revenue: reserving the jurisdiction to the States by whom
they are granted.

The first plan, I expect, will be thought too bold an expedient, by the
generality of Congress; and, indeed, their practice hitherto, has so
riveted the opinion of their want of power, that the success of this
experiment may very well be doubted.

I see no objection to the other mode, that has any weight, in
competition with the reasons for it. The Convention should assemble the
first of November next. The sooner the better. Our disorders are too
violent to admit of a common or lingering remedy. The reasons for which
I require them to be vested with plenipotentiary authority, are, that
the business may suffer no delay in the execution; and may, in reality,
come to effect. A Convention may agree upon a Confederation: the
States, individually, hardly ever will. We must have one at all events,
and a vigorous one, if we mean to succeed in the contest, and be happy
hereafter. As I said before, to engage the States to comply with this
mode, Congress ought to confess to them, plainly and unanimously, the
impracticability of supporting our affairs on the present footing, and
without a solid coercive union. I ask, that the Convention should have
a power of vesting the whole, or a part, of the unoccupied lands in
Congress; because it is necessary that body should have some property,
as a fund for the arrangements of finance; and I know of no other kind
that can be given them.

The Confederation, in my opinion, should give Congress complete
sovereignty; except as to that part of internal police, which relates
to the rights of property and life among individuals, and to raising
money by internal taxes. It is necessary that every thing belonging
to this, should be regulated by the State legislatures. Congress
should have complete sovereignty in all that relates to war, peace,
trade, finance; and to the management of foreign affairs; the right of
declaring war; of raising armies, officering, paying them, directing
their motions in every respect; of equipping fleets, and doing the same
with them; of building fortifications, arsenals, magazines, etc., etc.;
of making peace on such conditions as they think proper; of regulating
trade, determining with what countries it shall be carried on; granting
indulgencies; laying prohibitions on all the articles of export, or
import; imposing duties; granting bounties and premiums for raising,
exporting, or importing, and applying to their own use, the product of
these duties; only giving credit to the States on whom they are raised,
in the general account of revenues and expenses; instituting Admiralty
Courts, etc.; of coining money; establishing Banks on such terms, and
with such privileges, as they think proper; appropriating funds, and
doing whatever else relates to the operations of finance; transacting
every thing with foreign nations; making alliances, offensive and
defensive; treaties of commerce, etc., etc.

The Confederation should provide certain perpetual revenues,
productive, and easy of collection; a land tax, poll tax, or the like;
which, together with the duties on trade, and the unlocated lands,
would give Congress a substantial existence, and a stable foundation
for their schemes of finance. What more supplies were necessary, should
be occasionally demanded of the States, in the present mode of quotas.

The second step I would recommend, is, that Congress should instantly
appoint the following great officers of State. A Secretary for Foreign
Affairs, a President of War, a President of Marine, a Financier, a
President of Trade. Instead of this last, a Board of Trade may be
preferable, as the regulations of trade are slow and gradual; and
require prudence and experience more than other qualities; for which
Boards are very well adapted.

Congress should choose for these offices, men of the first abilities,
property, and character, in the Continent; and such as have had the
best opportunities of being acquainted with the several branches.
General Schuyler, whom you mentioned, would make an excellent President
of War; General M’Dougall a very good President of Marine. Mr. Robert
Morris would have many things in his favor for the department of
finance. He could, by his own personal influence, give great weight to
the measures he should adopt. I dare say men, equally capable, may be
found for the other departments.

I know not if it would not be a good plan to let the Financier be
President of the Board of Trade; but he should only have a casting
voice in determining questions there. There is a connection between
trade and finance, which ought to make the director of one acquainted
with the other; but the Financier should not direct the affairs of
trade, because, for the sake of acquiring reputation by increasing the
revenues, he might adopt measures that would depress trade. In what
relates to finance, he should be alone.

These officers should have nearly the same powers and functions as
those in France analogous to them: and each should be Chief in his
department; with subordinate Boards, composed of assistants, clerks,
etc., to execute his orders.

In my opinion, a plan of this kind would be of inconceivable utility to
our affairs: its benefits would be very speedily felt. It would give
new life and energy to the operations of Government. Business would be
conducted with dispatch, method, and system. A million of abuses, now
existing, would be corrected; and judicious plans would be formed and
executed for the public good.

Another step of immediate necessity, is, to recruit the army for the
war, or at least for three years. This must be done by a mode similar
to that which is practised in Sweden. There the inhabitants are thrown
into classes of sixteen; and when the sovereign wants men, each of
these classes must furnish one. They raise a fixed sum of money; and
if one of the class is willing to become a soldier, he receives the
money and offers himself a volunteer. If none is found to do this, a
draught is made; and he on whom the lot falls, receives the money, and
is obliged to serve.

The minds of the people are prepared for a thing of this kind. The
heavy bounties they have been obliged to pay for men to serve a few
months, must have disgusted them with this mode, and made them desirous
of another, that will, once for all, answer the public purposes, and
obviate a repetition of the demand. It ought, by all means, to be
attempted; and Congress should frame a general plan, and press the
execution upon the States.

When the Confederation comes to be framed, it ought to provide for this
by a fundamental law; and hereafter there would be no doubt of the
success.

But we cannot now wait for this. We want to replace the men whose times
of service will expire the first of January: for then, without this, we
shall have no army remaining; and the enemy may do what they please.
The General, in his letter already quoted, has assigned the most
substantial reasons for paying immediate attention to this point.

Congress should endeavor, both upon their credit in Europe, and
by every possible exertion in this country, to provide clothing
for their officers; and should abolish the whole system of State
supplies. The making good the depreciation of the currency, and all
other compensations to the army, should be immediately taken up by
Congress, and not left to the States. If they would have the accounts
of depreciation liquidated, and governmental certificates given for
what is due, in specie, or an equivalent to specie, it would give
satisfaction; appointing periodical settlements for future depreciation.

The placing the officers upon half-pay during life, would be a great
stroke of policy; and would give Congress a stronger tie upon them
than any thing else they can do. No man, that reflects a moment,
but will prefer a permanent provision of this kind to any temporary
compensation. Nor is it opposed to economy: the difference between
this, and between what has already been done, will be insignificant.
The benefit of it to the widows should be confined to those whose
husbands die during the war. As to the survivors, not more than one
half, on the usual calculation of men’s lives, will exceed the seven
years for which the half-pay is already established. Beside this,
whatever may be the visionary speculations of some men at this time,
we shall find it indispensable, after the war, to keep on foot a
considerable body of troops: and all the officers, retained for this
purpose, must be deducted out of the half-pay list. If any one will
take the pains to calculate the expense of these principles, I am
persuaded he will find the addition of expense, from the establishment
proposed, by no means a national object.

The advantages of securing the attachment of the army to Congress, and
binding them to the service by substantial ties, are immense. We should
then have discipline; an army in reality, as well as in name. Congress
would then have a solid basis of authority and consequence: for, to me,
it is an axiom, that in our constitution, an army is essential to the
American Union.

The providing of supplies, is the pivot of every thing else (though a
well-constituted army would, not in a small degree, conduce to this, by
giving consistency and weight to Government). There are four ways, all
of which must be united: A foreign loan; heavy pecuniary taxes; a tax
in kind; a Bank founded on public and private credit.

As to a foreign loan, I dare say Congress are doing every thing in
their power to obtain it. The most effectual way will be to tell
France, that, without it, we must make terms with Great Britain.
This must be done with plainness and firmness; but with respect, and
without petulance; not as a menace, but as a candid declaration of our
circumstances.

We need not fear to be deserted by France. Her interest and honor
are too deeply involved in our fate; and she can make no possible
compromise. She can assist us, if she is convinced it is absolutely
necessary; either by lending us, herself, or by becoming our surety,
or by influencing Spain. It has been to me astonishing, how any man
could have doubted, at any period of our affairs, of the necessity of
a foreign loan. It was self-evident, that we had not a fund of wealth
in this country capable of affording revenues equal to the expenses. We
must then create artificial revenues, or borrow. The first was done;
but it ought to have been foreseen that the expedient could not last,
and we should have provided in time for its failure.

Here was an error of Congress. I have good reason to believe, that
measures were not taken, in earnest, early enough to procure a loan
abroad. I give you my honor, that from our first outset, I thought as
I do now, and wished for a foreign loan; not only because I foresaw
it would be essential, but because I considered it as a tie upon the
nation from which it was derived, and as a mean to prop our cause in
Europe.

Concerning the necessity of heavy pecuniary taxes, I need say nothing;
as it is a point in which every body is agreed. Nor is there any
danger, that the product of any taxes, raised in this way, will
overburthen the people, or exceed the wants of the public. Indeed, if
all the paper in circulation were drawn annually into the treasury, it
would neither do one nor the other.

As to a tax in kind, the necessity of it results from this principle:
that the money in circulation is not a sufficient representative of
the productions of the country; and, consequently, no revenues, raised
from it as a medium, can be a competent representative of that part
of the products of the country which it is bound to contribute to
the support of the public. The public, therefore, to obtain its due,
or satisfy its just demands, and its wants, must call for a part of
those products themselves. This is done in all those countries which
are not commercial: in Russia, Prussia, Denmark, Sweden, etc., and is
peculiarly necessary in our case.

Congress, in calling for specific supplies, seem to have had this
in view; but their intention has not been answered. The States, in
general, have undertaken to furnish supplies by purchase; a mode, as I
have observed, attended with every inconvenience, and subverting the
principle on which the supplies were demanded; the insufficiency of our
circulating medium as a representative for the labor and commodities
of the country. It is therefore necessary that Congress should be more
explicit; should form the outlines of a plan for a tax in kind, and
recommend it to the States as a measure of absolute necessity.

The general idea I have of a plan, is, that a respectable man should
be appointed by the State, in each county, to collect the taxes
and form magazines; that Congress should have, in each State, an
officer to superintend the whole; and that the State collectors
should be subordinate and responsible to them. This Continental
Superintendent might be subject to the general direction of the
Quarter-Master-General, or not, as might be deemed best; but if not
subject to him, he should be obliged to make monthly returns to
the President at War, who should instruct him what proportion to
deliver to the Quarter-Master-General. It may be necessary, that the
Superintendents should sometimes have power to dispose of the articles
in their possession, on public account; for it would happen, that the
contributions, in places remote from the army, could not be transported
to the theatre of operations without too great expense; in which case
it would be eligible to dispose of them, and purchase, with the money
so raised, in the countries near the immediate scene of war.

I know the objections which may be raised to this plan; its tendency
to discourage industry, and the like. But necessity calls for it. We
cannot proceed without it: and less evils must give place to greater.
It is, besides, practised with success in other countries, and why not
in this? It may be said, the examples cited are from nations under
despotic governments; and that the same would not be practicable with
us. But I contend, where the public good is evidently the object, more
may be effected in governments like ours, than in any other. It has
been a constant remark, that free countries have ever paid the heaviest
taxes. The obedience of a free people to general laws, however hard
they bear, is ever more perfect than that of slaves to the arbitrary
will of a prince. To this may be added, that Sweden was always a free
government; and is so now, in a great degree, notwithstanding the late
revolution. How far it may be practicable to erect a Bank on the
joint credit of the public and of individuals, can only be certainly
determined by the experiment. But it is of so much importance, that the
experiment ought to be fully tried. When I saw the subscriptions going
on to the Bank established for supplying the army, I was in hopes it
was only the embryo of a more permanent and extensive establishment.
But I have reason to believe I shall be disappointed. It does not seem
to be at all conducted on the true principles of a Bank.

The Directors of it are purchasing with their Stock, instead of Bank
notes, as I expected: in consequence of which, it must turn out to be a
mere subscription of a particular sum of money for a particular purpose.

Paper credit never was long supported in any country, on a national
scale, where it was not founded on a joint basis of public and private
credit. An attempt to establish it on public credit alone, in France,
under the auspices of Mr. Law, had nearly ruined the kingdom. We have
seen the effects of it in America; and every successive experiment,
proves the futility of the attempt. Our new money is depreciating
almost as fast as the old; though it has, in some States, as real funds
as paper money ever had. The reason is, that the moneyed men have not
an immediate interest to uphold its credit. They may even, in many
ways, find it their interest to undermine it. The only certain manner
to obtain a permanent paper credit, is to engage the moneyed interest
immediately in it, by making them contribute the whole, or part of the
Stock, and giving them the whole, or part of the profits.

The invention of Banks, on the modern principle, originated in Venice.
There the public, and a Company of moneyed men, are mutually concerned.
The Bank of England unites public authority and faith with private
credit: and hence we see, what a vast fabric of paper credit is raised
on a visionary basis. Had it not been for this, England would never
have found sufficient funds to carry on her wars: but, with the help
of this, she has done, and is doing, wonders. The Bank of Amsterdam is
on a similar foundation. And why can we not have an American Bank?
Are our moneyed men less enlightened to their own interest, or less
enterprising in the pursuit? I believe the fault is in Government,
which does not exert itself to engage them in such a scheme. It is
true, the individuals in America are not very rich; but this would not
prevent their instituting a Bank; it would only prevent its being done
with such ample funds as in other countries. Have they not sufficient
confidence in the Government, and in the issue of the cause? Let
the Government endeavor to inspire that confidence, by adopting the
measures I have recommended, or others equivalent to them. Let it
exert itself to procure a solid Confederation; to establish a good
plan of executive administration; to form a permanent military force;
to obtain, at all events, a foreign loan. If these things were in a
train of vigorous execution, it would give a new spring to our affairs;
Government would recover its respectability, and individuals would
renounce their diffidence.

The object I should propose to myself, in the first instance, from
a Bank, would be an auxiliary mode of supplies; for which purpose,
contracts should be made, between Government and the Bank, on terms
liberal and advantageous to the latter. Every thing should be done,
in the first instance, to encourage the Bank. After it gets well
established, it will take care of itself; and Government may make the
best terms it can, for itself.

The first step to establishing the Bank, will be to engage a number of
moneyed men of influence to relish the project, and make it a business.
The subscribers to that lately established, are the fittest persons
that can be found; and their plan may be interwoven.

The outlines of my plan would be, to open subscriptions in all the
States; for the Stock, which we will suppose to be one million of
pounds. Real property of every kind, as well as specie, should be
deemed good Stock; but at least a fourth part of the subscription
should be in specie, or plate. There should be one great Company, in
three divisions: in Virginia, Philadelphia, and at Boston; or two at
Philadelphia and Boston. The Bank should have a right to issue Bank
notes, bearing two per cent. interest, for the whole of their stock;
but not to exceed it. These notes may be payable every three months, or
oftener: and the faith of government must be pledged for the support of
the Bank. It must therefore have a right, from time to time, to inspect
its operations, and must appoint inspectors for the purpose.

The advantages of the Bank may consist in this: in the profits of
the contracts made with Government, which should bear interest to
be annually paid in specie; in the loan of money at interest, say
six per cent.; in purchasing lives by annuities, as practised in
England, etc. The benefit resulting to the Company, is evident from
the consideration, that they may employ, in circulation, a great
deal more money than they have specie in Stock, on the credit of the
real property which they will have in other use. This money will be
employed, either in fulfilling their contracts with the public, by
which also they will gain a profit; or in loans at an advantageous
interest, or in annuities.

The Bank may be allowed to purchase plate and bullion, and coin money;
allowing Government a part of the profit. I make the Bank notes bear
interest, to obtain a readier currency, and to induce the holders to
prefer them to specie, to prevent too great a run upon the Bank, at any
time, beyond its ability to pay.

If Government can obtain a foreign loan, it should lend to the Bank,
on easy terms, to extend its influence, and facilitate a compliance
with its engagements. If Government could engage the States to raise
a sum of money in specie, to be deposited in Bank in the same manner,
it would be of the greatest consequence. If Government could prevail
on the enthusiasm of the people, to make a contribution in plate for
the same purpose, it would be a master-stroke. Things of this kind
sometimes succeed in popular contests; and, if undertaken with address,
I should not despair of its success: but I should not be sanguine.

The Bank may be instituted for a term of years by way of trial; and the
particular privilege of coining money, be for a term still shorter.
A temporary transfer of it to a particular Company, can have no
inconvenience, as the Government are in no condition to improve this
resource; nor could it, in our circumstances, be an object to them;
though, with the industry of a knot of individuals, it might be a
valuable one to them. A Bank of this kind, even in its commencement,
would answer the most valuable purposes to Government and to the
proprietors: in its progress, the advantages will exceed calculation.
It will promote commerce, by furnishing a more extensive medium, which
we greatly want, in our circumstances. I mean a more extensive valuable
medium. We have an enormous nominal one at this time, but it is only a
name.

In the present unsettled state of things in this country, we can hardly
draw inferences from what has happened in others; otherwise I should be
certain of the success of this scheme: but I think it has enough in its
favor to be worthy of trial.

I have only skimmed the surface of the different subjects I have
introduced. Should the plans recommended come into contemplation, in
earnest, and you desire my further thoughts, I will endeavor to give
them more form and particularity. I am persuaded a solid Confederation,
a permanent army, a reasonable prospect of subsisting it, would give us
treble consideration in Europe, and produce a peace this winter.

If a Convention is called, the minds of all the States, and the people,
ought to be prepared to receive its determinations by sensible and
popular writings, which should conform to the views of Congress. There
are epochs in human affairs when _novelty_ even is useful. If a general
opinion prevails that the old way is bad, whether true or false, and
this obstructs or relaxes the operations of the public service, a
change is necessary, if it be but for the sake of change. This is
exactly the case now. ’Tis a universal sentiment, that our present
system is a bad one, and that things do not go right on this account.
The measure of a Convention would revive the hopes of the people,
and give a new direction to their passions, which may be improved in
carrying points of substantial utility. The eastern States have already
pointed out this mode to Congress: they ought to take the hint and
anticipate the others.

And, in future, my dear sir, two things let me recommend, as
fundamental rules for the conduct of Congress: to attach the army to
them by every motive; to maintain an air of authority (not domineering)
in all their measures with the States. The manner in which a thing is
done, has more influence than is commonly imagined. Men are governed
by opinion: this opinion is as much influenced by appearances as by
realities. If a Government appears to be confident of its own powers,
it is the surest way to inspire the same confidence in others. If it is
diffident, it may be certain there will be a still greater diffidence
in others; and that its authority will not only be distrusted,
controverted, but contemned.

I wish, too, Congress would always consider, that a kindness
consists as much in the manner as in the thing. The best things done
hesitatingly, and with an ill grace, lose their effect, and produce
disgust rather than satisfaction or gratitude. In what Congress have at
any time done for the army, they have commonly been too late. They have
seemed to yield to importunity, rather than to sentiments of justice or
to a regard to the accommodation of their troops. An attention to this
idea, is of more importance than it may be thought. I, who have seen
all the workings and progress of the present discontents, am convinced,
that a want of this has not been among the most inconsiderable causes.

You will perceive, my dear sir, this letter is hastily written, and
with a confidential freedom: not as to a member of Congress, whose
feelings may be sore at the prevailing clamors; but as to a friend, who
is in a situation to remedy public disorders; who wishes for nothing so
much as truth; and who is desirous of information, even from those less
capable of judging than himself. I have not even time to correct and
copy; and only enough to add, that I am, very truly and affectionately,
dear sir,

                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             A. Hamilton.




SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.


                                                                   1780.

My Dear Sir:

Your favor of the 17th I received on that day. That of the 13th has
taken a tour to Albany and was delivered me this moment.

Commissioners will be appointed to meet the Eastern Convention; I
believe Judge Hubbard, Mr. Benson, the Attorney General, and myself,
will go; the two gentlemen I have mentioned are as deeply impressed as
men can be with the necessity of more power in the directing councils,
or what would be better in our present situation, ----. The lower house
are for it, but the upper timid, although heartily disposed to every
measure which will give vigor.

I was too much indisposed to undertake the journey to Hartford,
and continue so much so that I am obliged to quit this before the
Legislature rises.

I am informed Gates is to have the thanks of the Senate for not
despairing of the Commonwealth, but that they do not mean to tread
wholly in the steps of the Romans, and confine him to subordinate
commands; he is to have a potent army, and to drive Cornwallis and his
crew into the sea with more rapidity than he flew to Hillsborough.

Pray entreat the General and the gentlemen of his family to accept of
my best wishes, in which you always partake.

                                             I am, dear Sir,
                                             Affectionately yours, etc.,
                                             P. Schuyler.

Col. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MISS SCHUYLER.


                                                      September 6, 1780.

Most people here are groaning under a very disagreeable piece of
intelligence just come from the southward, that Gates has had a total
defeat near Camden, in South Carolina. Cornwallis and he met in the
night of the fifteenth, by accident, marching to the same point. The
advanced guards skirmished, and the two armies halted and formed till
morning. In the morning a battle ensued, in which the militia, and
Gates with them, immediately ran away, and left the Continental troops
to contend with the enemy’s whole force.

They did it obstinately, and probably are most of them cut off. Gates,
however, who writes to Congress, seems to know very little what has
become of his army. He showed that age and the long labors and fatigues
of a military life had not in the least impaired his activity, for in
three days and a half he reached Hillsborough, one hundred and eighty
miles from the scene of action, leaving all his troops to take care of
themselves, and get out of the scrape as well as they could.

He has confirmed, in this instance, the opinion I always had of him.
This event will have very serious consequences to the southward.
People’s imaginations have already given up North Carolina and
Virginia; but I do not believe either of them will fall. I am certain
Virginia cannot. This misfortune affects me less than others, because
it is not in my temper to repine at evils that are past, but to
endeavor to draw good out of them, and because I think our safety
depends on a total change of system, and this change of system will
only be produced by misfortune.

                                                   A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO DUANE.


                                                      September 6, 1780.

My Dear Sir:

The letter accompanying this has lain by two or three days for want
of an opportunity. I have heard since of Gates’s defeat: a very good
comment on the necessity of changing our system. His passion for
militia, I fancy, will be a little cured, and he will cease to think
them the best bulwark of American liberty. What think you of the
conduct of this great man? I am his enemy personally, for unjust and
unprovoked attacks upon my character; therefore what I say of him ought
to be received as from an enemy, and have no more weight than as it
is consistent with fact and common sense. But did ever any one hear
of such a disposition or such a flight? His best troops placed on the
side strongest by nature, his worst on that weakest by nature, and
his attack made with these. ’Tis impossible to give a more complete
picture of military absurdity. It is equally against the maxims of
war and common sense. We see the consequences. His left ran away, and
left his right uncovered. His right wing turned on the left has in all
probability been cut off. Though, in truth, the General seems to have
known very little what became of his army.

Had he placed his militia on his right, supported by the morass,
and his Continental troops on his left, where it seems he was most
vulnerable, his right would have been more secure, and his left would
have opposed the enemy; and instead of going backward when he ordered
to attack, would have gone forward. The reverse of what has happened
might have happened.

But was there ever an instance of a General running away, as Gates
has done, from his whole army? And was there ever so precipitous a
flight? One hundred and eighty miles in three days and a half. It does
admirable credit to the activity of a man at his time of life. But it
disgraces the General and the soldier. I always believed him to be very
far short of a Hector, or a Ulysses. All the world, I think, will begin
to agree with me.

But what will be done by Congress? Will he be changed or not? If he is
changed, for God’s sake overcome prejudice, and send Greene. You know
my opinion of him. I stake my reputation on the events, give him but
fair play.

But, above all things, let us have, without delay, a vigorous,
government, and a well constituted army for the war.

                                                   Adieu, my dear Sir,
                                                   A. Hamilton.




COL. FLEURY TO HAMILTON.


                                     Boston, September 7, 1780.

If you do write to me, direct your letters to General Heath, and under
his cover. I cannot tell why till I see you; I want it much.

The enemy have left Martha’s Vineyard. It is reported they sailed to
the southward.

I beg you would remember me to my friend Laurens; I have written to
him, but he keeps silent.

I do not like your situation at Lee’s Fort: you throw the glove to
Clinton; he will take it, and we are not near enough to be your
seconds. Our sick increase; not much; but they increase.

                                      Farewell, your servant and friend,
                                      F * * y.




HAMILTON TO LAURENS.


                                                        September, 1780.

Since my return from Hartford, my dear Laurens, my mind has been too
little at ease to permit me to write to you sooner. It has been wholly
occupied by the affecting and tragic consequences of Arnold’s treason.
My feelings were never put to so severe a trial. You will no doubt
have heard the principal facts before this reaches you. But there are
particulars, to which my situation gave me access, that cannot have
come to your knowledge from public report, which I am persuaded you
will find interesting.

From several circumstances, the project seems to have originated
with Arnold himself, and to have been long premeditated. The first
overture is traced back to some time in June last. It was conveyed in
a letter to Colonel Robinson; the substance of which was, that the
ingratitude he had experienced from his country, concurring with other
causes, had entirely changed his principles; that he now only sought
to restore himself to the favor of his king, by some signal proof of
his repentance; and would be happy to open a correspondence with Sir
Henry Clinton for that purpose. About this period he made a journey to
Connecticut: on his return from which to Philadelphia, he solicited
the command of West Point; alleging that the effects of his wounds had
disqualified him for the active duties of the field. The sacrifice of
this important post was the atonement he intended to make. General
Washington hesitated the less to gratify an officer who had rendered
such eminent services, as he was convinced the post might be safely
intrusted to one who had given so many distinguished specimens of his
bravery. In the beginning of August he joined the army and renewed his
application. The enemy, at this juncture, had embarked the greatest
part of their forces on an expedition to Rhode Island; and our army was
in motion to compel them to relinquish the enterprise, or to attack
New-York in its weakened state. The General offered Arnold the left
wing of the army, which he declined, on the pretext already mentioned,
but not without visible embarrassment. He certainly might have executed
the duties of such a temporary command; and it was expected from his
enterprising temper, that he would gladly have embraced so splendid an
opportunity. But he did not choose to be diverted a moment from his
favorite object; probably from an apprehension that some different
disposition might have taken place, which would have excluded him. The
extreme solicitude he discovered to get possession of the post, would
have led to a suspicion of treachery, had it been possible, from his
past conduct, to have supposed him capable of it.

The correspondence thus begun, was carried on between Arnold and Major
André, Adjutant-General to the British army, in behalf of Sir Henry
Clinton, under feigned signatures, and in a mercantile disguise. In
an intercepted letter of Arnold’s, which lately fell into our hands,
he proposes an interview, “to settle the risks and profits of the
copartnership;” and, in the same style of metaphor, intimates an
expected augmentation of the garrison; and speaks of it as the means
of extending their traffic. It appears, by another letter, that André
was to have met him on the lines, under the sanction of a flag, in the
character of Mr. John Anderson. But some cause or other, not known,
prevented this interview.

The twentieth of last month, Robinson and André went up the river
in the Vulture sloop-of-war. Robinson sent a flag to Arnold with
two letters; one to General Putnam, inclosed in another to himself;
proposing an interview with Putnam, or, in his absence, with Arnold, to
adjust some private concerns. The one to General Putnam, was evidently
meant as a cover to the other, in case, by accident, the letters should
have fallen under the inspection of a third person.

General Washington crossed the river, on his way to Hartford, the day
these dispatches arrived. Arnold, conceiving he must have heard of the
flag, thought it necessary, for the sake of appearances, to submit the
letters to him, and ask his opinion of the propriety of complying with
the request. The General, with his usual caution, though without the
least surmise of the design, dissuaded him from it, and advised him
to reply to Robinson, that whatever related to his private affairs,
must be of a civil nature, and could only properly be addressed to the
civil authority. This reference fortunately deranged the plan; and was
the first link in the chain of events that led to the detection. The
interview could no longer take place in the form of a flag, but was
obliged to be managed in a secret manner.

Arnold employed one Smith to go on board the Vulture the night of
the twenty-second, to bring André on shore, with a pass for Mr. John
Anderson. André came ashore accordingly; and was conducted within a
picket of ours to the house of Smith, where Arnold and he remained
together in close conference all that night and the day following.
At daylight in the morning, the commanding officer at King’s Ferry,
without the privity of Arnold, moved a couple of pieces of cannon to
a point opposite to where the Vulture lay, and obliged her to take a
more remote station. This event, or some lurking distrust, made the
boatmen refuse to convey the two passengers back, and disconcerted
Arnold so much, that by one of those strokes of infatuation which
often confound the schemes of men conscious of guilt, he insisted on
André’s exchanging his uniform for a disguise, and returning in a mode
different from that in which he came. André, who had been undesignedly
brought within our posts in the first instance, remonstrated warmly
against this new and dangerous expedient. But Arnold persisting in
declaring it impossible for him to return as he came, he at length
reluctantly yielded to his direction, and consented to change his
dress, and take the route he recommended. Smith furnished the disguise,
and in the evening passed King’s Ferry with him, and proceeded to
Crompond, where they stopped the remainder of the night, at the
instance of a militia officer, to avoid being suspected by him. The
next morning they resumed their journey, Smith accompanying André
a little beyond Pine’s Bridge, where he left him. He had reached
Tarrytown, when he was taken up by three militia men, who rushed out of
the woods and seized his horse.

At this critical moment, his presence of mind forsook him. Instead
of producing his pass, which would have extricated him from our
parties, and could have done him no harm with his own, he asked the
militia men, if they were of the _upper_ or _lower_ party; distinctive
appellations known among the enemy’s refugee corps. The militia men
replied, they were of the lower party; upon which he told them he
was a British officer, and pressed them not to detain him, as he was
upon urgent business. This confession removed all doubts; and it was
in vain he afterwards produced his pass. He was instantly forced off
to a place of greater security, where, after a careful search, there
were found, concealed in the feet of his stockings, several papers
of importance, delivered to him by Arnold! Among these, were a plan
of the fortifications of West Point; a memorial from the engineer
on the attack and defence of the place; returns of the garrison,
cannon, and stores; copy of the minutes of a council of war held by
General Washington a few weeks before. The prisoner, at first, was
inadvertently ordered to Arnold; but on recollection, while still on
the way, he was countermanded, and sent to Old Salem. The papers were
inclosed in a letter to General Washington, which, having taken a
route different from that by which he returned, made a circuit that
afforded leisure for another letter, through an ill-judged delicacy,
written to Arnold with information of Anderson’s capture, to get to him
an hour before General Washington arrived at his quarters; time enough
to elude the fate that awaited him. He went down the river in his barge
to the Vulture with such precipitate confusion, that he did not take
with him a single paper useful to the enemy. On the first notice of the
affair, he was pursued, but much too late to be overtaken.

There was some color for imagining it was a part of the plan to betray
the General into the hands of the enemy. Arnold was very anxious to
ascertain from him the precise day of his return; and the enemy’s
movements seem to have corresponded to this point. But if it was really
the case, it was very injudicious. The success must have depended
on surprise; and as the officers at the advanced posts were not in
the secret, their measures might have given the alarm; and General
Washington, taking the command of the post, might have rendered the
whole scheme abortive. Arnold, it is true, had so dispersed the
garrison, as to have made a defence difficult, but not impracticable;
and the acquisition of West Point was of such magnitude to the enemy,
that it would have been unwise to connect it with any other object,
however great, which might make the obtaining of it precarious.

Arnold, a moment before the setting out, went into Mrs. Arnold’s
apartment, and informed her that some transactions had just come to
light, which must for ever banish him from his country. She fell
into a swoon at this declaration: and he left her in it, to consult
his own safety, till the servants, alarmed by her cries, came to her
relief. She remained frantic all day; accusing every one who approached
her, with an intention to murder her child (an infant in her arms);
and exhibiting every other mark of the most genuine and agonizing
distress. Exhausted by the fatigue and tumult of her spirits, her
phrensy subsided towards evening, and she sank into all the sadness
of affliction. It was impossible not to have been touched with her
situation. Every thing affecting in female tears, or in the misfortunes
of beauty; every thing pathetic in the wounded tenderness of a wife,
or in the apprehensive fondness of a mother; and, till I have reason
to change the opinion, I will add, every thing amiable in suffering
innocence; conspired to make her an object of sympathy to all who
were present. She experienced the most delicate attentions, and every
friendly office, till her departure for Philadelphia.

André was, without loss of time, conducted to the head quarters of
the army, where he was immediately brought before a Board of General
Officers, to prevent all possibility of misrepresentation, or cavil
on the part of the enemy. The Board reported, that he ought to be
considered as a spy, and, according to the laws of nations, to suffer
death; which was executed two days after.

Never, perhaps, did any man suffer death with more justice, or
deserve it less. The first step he took, after his capture, was to
write a letter to General Washington, conceived in terms of dignity
without insolence, and apology without meanness. The scope of it was
to vindicate himself from the imputation of having assumed a mean
character for treacherous or interested purposes; asserting that he
had been involuntarily an impostor; that contrary to his intention,
which was to meet a person for intelligence on neutral ground, he had
been betrayed within our posts, and forced into the vile condition
of an enemy in disguise; soliciting only, that, to whatever rigor
policy might devote him, a decency of treatment might be observed,
due to a person, who, though unfortunate, had been guilty of nothing
dishonorable. His request was granted in its full extent; for, in the
whole progress of the affair, he was treated with the most scrupulous
delicacy. When brought before the Board of Officers, he met with every
mark of indulgence, and was required to answer no interrogatory which
could even embarrass his feelings. On his part, while he carefully
concealed every thing that might involve others, he frankly confessed
all the facts relating to himself; and, upon his confession, without
the trouble of examining a witness, the Board made their Report. The
members of it were not more impressed with the candor and firmness,
mixed with a becoming sensibility, which he displayed, than he was
penetrated with their liberality and politeness. He acknowledged
the generosity of the behavior towards him in every respect, but
particularly in this, in the strongest terms of manly gratitude. In
a conversation with a gentleman who visited him after his trial, he
said he flattered himself he had never been illiberal; but if there
were any remains of prejudice in his mind, his present experience must
obliterate them.

In one of the visits I made to him (and I saw him several times during
his confinement), he begged me to be the bearer of a request to the
General, for permission to send an open letter to Sir Henry Clinton.
“I foresee my fate,” said he, “and though I pretend not to play the
hero, or to be indifferent about life; yet I am reconciled to whatever
may happen, conscious that misfortune, not guilt, has brought it upon
me. There is only one thing that disturbs my tranquillity. Sir Henry
Clinton has been too good to me; he has been lavish of his kindness. I
am bound to him by too many obligations, and love him too well, to bear
the thought, that he should reproach himself, or that others should
reproach him, on the supposition of my having conceived myself obliged,
by his instructions, to run the risk I did. I would not, for the world,
leave a sting in his mind that should imbitter his future days.” He
could scarce finish the sentence, bursting into tears in spite of his
efforts to suppress them; and with difficulty collected himself enough
afterwards to add: “I wish to be permitted to assure him, I did not act
under this impression, but submitted to a necessity imposed upon me,
as contrary to my own inclination as to his orders.” His request was
readily complied with; and he wrote the letter annexed, with which I
dare say you will be as much pleased as I am, both for the diction and
sentiment.

When his sentence was announced to him, he remarked, that since it
was his lot to die, there was still a choice in the mode, which would
make a material difference in his feelings; and he would be happy, if
possible, to be indulged with a professional death. He made a second
application, by letter, in concise but persuasive terms. It was thought
this indulgence, being incompatible with the customs of war, could not
be granted; and it was therefore determined, in both cases, to evade an
answer, to spare him the sensations which a certain knowledge of the
intended mode would inflict.

In going to the place of execution, he bowed familiarly as he
went along, to all those with whom he had been acquainted in his
confinement. A smile of complacency expressed the serene fortitude of
his mind. Arrived at the fatal spot, he asked, with some emotion, “Must
I then die in this manner?” He was told it had been unavoidable. “I am
reconciled to my fate,” said he, “but not to the mode.” Soon, however,
recollecting himself, he added: “It will be but a momentary pang:”
and, springing upon the cart, performed the last offices to himself,
with a composure that excited the admiration, and melted the hearts
of the beholders. Upon being told the final moment was at hand, and
asked if he had any thing to say, he answered, “Nothing but to request
you will witness to the world, that I die like a brave man.” Among the
extraordinary circumstances that attended him, in the midst of his
enemies, he died universally esteemed and universally regretted.

There was something singularly interesting in the character and
fortunes of André. To an excellent understanding, well improved by
education and travel, he united a peculiar elegance of mind and
manners, and the advantage of a pleasing person. ’Tis said he possessed
a pretty taste for the fine arts, and had himself attained some
proficiency in poetry, music, and painting. His knowledge appeared
without ostentation, and embellished by a diffidence that rarely
accompanies so many talents and accomplishments: which left you to
suppose more than appeared. His sentiments were elevated, and inspired
esteem: they had a softness that conciliated affection. His elocution
was handsome: his address easy, polite, and insinuating. By his merit,
he had acquired the unlimited confidence of his General, and was
making a rapid progress in military rank and reputation. But in the
height of his career, flushed with new hopes from the execution of a
project, the most beneficial to his party that could be devised, he was
at once precipitated from the summit of prosperity, and saw all the
expectations of his ambition blasted, and himself ruined.

The character I have given of him, is drawn partly from what I saw
of him myself, and partly from information. I am aware that a man of
real merit is never seen in so favorable a light as through the medium
of adversity: the clouds that surround him, are shades that set off
his good qualities. Misfortune cuts down the little vanities that, in
prosperous times, serve as so many spots in his virtues; and gives a
tone of humility that makes his worth more amiable. His spectators,
who enjoy a happier lot, are less prone to detract from it, through
envy, and are more disposed, by compassion, to give him the credit he
deserves, and perhaps even to magnify it.

I speak not of André’s conduct in this affair as a philosopher, but as
a man of the world. The authorized maxims and practices of war, are
the satires of human nature. They countenance almost every species
of seduction as well as violence; and the General who can make most
traitors in the army of his adversary, is frequently most applauded. On
this scale we acquit André; while we could not but condemn him, if we
were to examine his conduct by the sober rules of philosophy and moral
rectitude. It is, however, a blemish on his fame, that he once intended
to prostitute a flag: about this, a man of nice honor ought to have had
a scruple; but the temptation was great: let his misfortunes cast a
veil over his error.

Several letters from Sir Henry Clinton and others, were received in the
course of the affair, feebly attempting to prove, that André came out
under the protection of a flag, with a passport from a general officer
in actual service; and consequently could not be justly detained.
Clinton sent a deputation, composed of Lieutenant-General Robinson,
Mr. Elliot, and Mr. William Smith, to represent, as he said, the true
state of Major André’s case. General Greene met Robinson, and had a
conversation with him; in which he reiterated the pretence of a flag;
urged André’s release as a personal favor to Sir Henry Clinton; and
offered any friend of ours, in their power, in exchange. Nothing could
have been more frivolous than the plea which was used. The fact was,
that beside the time, manner, object of the interview, change of dress,
and other circumstances, there was not a single formality customary
with flags; and the passport was not to Major André, but to Mr.
Anderson. But had there been, on the contrary, all the formalities, it
would be an abuse of language to say, that the sanction of a flag for
corrupting an officer to betray his trust, ought to be respected. So
unjustifiable a purpose, would not only destroy its validity, but make
it an aggravation.

André, himself, has answered the argument, by ridiculing and exploding
the idea, in his examination before the Board of Officers. It was a
weakness to urge it.

There was, in truth, no way of saving him. Arnold, or he, must have
been the victim: the former was out of our power.

It was by some suspected, Arnold had taken his measures in such a
manner, that if the interview had been discovered in the act, it might
have been in his power to sacrifice André to his own security. This
surmise of double treachery, made them imagine Clinton might be induced
to give up Arnold for André; and a gentleman took occasion to suggest
this expedient to the latter, as a thing that might be proposed by him.
He declined it. The moment he had been capable of so much frailty, I
should have ceased to esteem him.

The infamy of Arnold’s conduct previous to his desertion, is only
equalled by his baseness since. Beside the folly of writing to Sir
Henry Clinton, assuring him that André had acted under a passport from
him, and according to his directions while commanding officer at a
post; and that, therefore, he did not doubt, he would be immediately
sent in; he had the effrontery to write to General Washington in the
same spirit; with the addition of a menace of retaliation, if the
sentence should be carried into execution. He has since acted the farce
of sending in his resignation. This man is, in every sense, despicable.
Added to the scene of knavery and prostitution during his command in
Philadelphia, which the late seizure of his papers has unfolded; the
history of his command at West Point is a history of little, as well
as great, villanies. He practised every dirty art of peculation; and
even stooped to connections with the suttlers of the garrison, to
defraud the public.

To his conduct, that of the captors of André forms a striking contrast.
He tempted them with the offer of his watch, his horse, and any sum
of money they should name. They rejected his offers with indignation:
and the gold that could seduce a man high in the esteem and confidence
of his country, who had the remembrance of past exploits, the motives
of present reputation and future glory, to prop his integrity, had
no charms for three simple peasants, leaning only on their virtue
and an honest sense of their duty. While Arnold is handed down, with
execration, to future times, posterity will repeat, with reverence, the
names of Van Wart, Paulding, and Williams.

I congratulate you, my friend, on our happy escape from the mischiefs
with which this treason was big. It is a new comment on the value of an
honest man, and if it were possible, would endear you to me more than
ever.

                                                   Adieu,
                                                   A. Hamilton.




SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.


                                  Poughkeepsie, Sept. 10, 1780.

My Dear Sir:

I am very apprehensive the unhappy event, mentioned in your favor of
the fifth instant, will draw very serious consequences in its train. It
will certainly much embarrass us, and probably retard the termination
of the war. It will, however, be attended with one good; the adherents,
in Congress, to the gallant Commander, will not have it any longer in
their power to play him off against the General. Gracious God! that
any rational being should put two men in competition, one of which has
_commanded_ an army, the other only been at the head of one; for I
aver, that when he was to the northward, he never made a disposition of
his troops. Indeed he was incapable: he never saw an enemy, except at
a good distance, and from places of perfect security. Indeed, indeed,
he has not lost a whit, in my estimation, by this stroke of his.

The General will have shown you extracts from the Senate and Assembly’s
Addresses to the Governor. A Committee of both Houses is appointed to
report on the proceedings of the Convention: they will certainly adopt
and extend the views of that Convention. Some here are for appointing
a Dictator, with a Vice Dictator in each State, invested with all the
powers conferred formerly by the Roman people on theirs. I made great
interest to be left out of the delegation, and obtained it, although
not without much difficulty. General M’Dougal is appointed in my stead:
but I believe I shall be obliged to go to the eastern Convention. If
so, I shall not repair to Rhode Island so soon as I intended.

Colonel Warner is wounded, and two of his officers killed near Fort
Edward.

Pray make my respects acceptable to the General, to the gentlemen of
the family, the Marquis, and those of his.

                                      Adieu.
                                      I am, dear Sir,
                                      Very affectionately and sincerely,
                                      Your most obedient servant,
                                      Ph. Schuyler.

I forgot to inform the General that the Governor had sent him an
extract of the proceedings of the Convention which I had promised to
transmit.




SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.


                              Poughkeepsie, September 16, 1780.

Dear Sir:

The great scarcity of wheat before harvest, and the drought since,
has prevented the agent appointed to collect the supply required from
this State, to deliver it to the Issuing Commissary; and we are at
least ten thousand barrels in arrears; the wheat for all which is
already assessed, a considerable quantity of it brought to the mills
to be manufactured, and the remainder daily collecting. Hence, unless
a second drought should prevail, our deficiency can be made good in
the course of a month: and this may be relied on. But should the
army actually be in operation, I do not _make a doubt_ but that the
hand of Government will be laid on all in the country; and, in that
case, a constant supply can be kept up so as to complete to thirty
thousand barrels, and perhaps half as much more, should Congress
order the quota of Pennsylvania (if she deigns to furnish any) to be
sold, and the money transmitted to this State. Exclusive of the wheat
already assessed to complete our quota of flour, the inhabitants of
Tryon County, and the western part of Albany, are threshing. This the
Legislature has ordered to be purchased for a State Magazine, should we
not be able to purchase the whole. The whole may, however, be obtained,
and without delay, if an operation takes place: to procure flour casks
is the greatest difficulty. I wish those at West Point were ordered
to be immediately put in order: those, and an aid of bags, may be
necessary.

I have communed with the Governor on the subject of M’Henry’s wish. He
is very much disposed to use his influence on the occasion, but doubts
if he should be able to obtain a Lieutenancy, unless the Ensigns that
now are, could all be provided for. If M’Henry merely wants military
rank for the campaign, and will not accept of an Ensigncy, the Governor
can, and will, give him a Lieutenant-Colonelcy in the State Levies,
which will always give him rank in our militia, and, consequently, in
the army, when the militia is in the field. But this must be determined
before the Legislature rises. Please, therefore, to desire M’Henry to
write me on the subject without delay, and to assure him of the best
services in my power.

If I knew when you would be at Fishkill, if you pass that way, I would
meet you there. Or if I believed it would not be disagreeable to the
General, I would go to Hartford, as I wish to see the other Sachem.

A spirit favorable to the common cause, has pervaded almost both
Houses. They begin to talk of a Dictator and Vice Dictators, as if
it was a thing that was already determined on. To the Convention to
be held at Hartford, I believe I shall be sent, with instructions to
propose that a Dictator should be appointed.

I have just seen Van Schaick’s whim. There is not one Lieutenancy
vacant.

I have had the inclosed several days with me, for want of a conveyance.
Please to dispatch the bearer as expeditiously back as you can.
Compliments to all.

                             I am, dear Sir, affectionately yours, etc.,
                             Ph. Schuyler.

Colonel Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO GREENE.


                                                   25th September, 1780.

Dear Sir:

There has just been unfolded at this place a scene of the blackest
treason. Arnold has fled to the enemy--André, the British Adjutant
General, is in our possession as a spy. His capture unravelled the
mystery.

West Point was to have been the sacrifice. All the dispositions have
been made for the purpose, and ’tis possible, though not probable, we
may still see the execution. The wind is fair. I came here in pursuit
of Arnold, but was too late. I advise your putting the army under
marching orders, and detaching a brigade immediately this way.

                                             I am, with great regard,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             Alex. Hamilton,
                                             Aid-de-Camp.

To Major General Greene.




HAMILTON TO MISS SCHUYLER.


                                                     September 25, 1780.

Arnold, hearing of the plot being detected, immediately fled to the
enemy. I went in pursuit of him, but was much too late; and could
hardly regret the disappointment, when, on my return, I saw an amiable
woman, frantic with distress for the loss of a husband she tenderly
loved; a traitor to his country and to his fame; a disgrace to his
connections: it was the most affecting scene I ever was witness to.
She, for a considerable time, entirely lost herself. The General went
up to see her, and she upbraided him with being in a plot to murder her
child. One moment she raved, another she melted into tears. Sometimes
she pressed her infant to her bosom, and lamented its fate, occasioned
by the imprudence of its father, in a manner that would have pierced
insensibility itself. All the sweetness of beauty, all the loveliness
of innocence, all the tenderness of a wife, and all the fondness of a
mother, showed themselves in her appearance and conduct. We have every
reason to believe, that she was entirely unacquainted with the plan,
and that the first knowledge of it, was when Arnold went to tell her
he must banish himself from his country and from her for ever. She
instantly fell into a convulsion, and he left her in that situation.

This morning she is more composed. I paid her a visit, and endeavored
to soothe her by every method in my power; though you may imagine she
is not easily to be consoled. Added to her other distresses, she is
very apprehensive the resentment of her country will fall upon her (who
is only unfortunate) for the guilt of her husband.

I have tried to persuade her that her fears are ill founded; but she
will not be convinced. She received us in bed, with every circumstance
that would interest our sympathy: and her sufferings were so eloquent,
that I wished myself her brother, to have a right to become her
defender. As it is, I have entreated her to enable me to give her
proofs of my friendship. Could I forgive Arnold for sacrificing his
honor, reputation, and duty, I could not forgive him for acting a part
that must have forfeited the esteem of so fine a woman. At present she
almost forgets his crime in his misfortunes; and her horror at the
guilt of the traitor, is lost in her love of the man. But a virtuous
mind cannot long esteem a base one; and time will make her despise if
it cannot make her hate.

                                                   A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MISS SCHUYLER.


                                          Tappan, Oct. 2, 1780.

Poor André suffers to-day. Every thing that is amiable in virtue, in
fortitude, in delicate sentiment, and accomplished manners, pleads for
him: but hard-hearted policy calls for a sacrifice. He must die----. I
send you my account of Arnold’s affair; and to justify myself to your
sentiments, I must inform you, that I urged a compliance with André’s
request to be shot; and I do not think it would have had an ill effect:
but some people are only sensible to motives of policy, and sometimes,
from a narrow disposition, mistake it.

When André’s tale comes to be told, and present resentment is over; the
refusing him the privilege of choosing the manner of his death will be
branded with too much obstinacy.

It was proposed to me to suggest to him the idea of an exchange for
Arnold; but I knew I should have forfeited his esteem by doing it,
and therefore declined it. As a man of honor he could not but reject
it; and I would not for the world have proposed to him a thing which
must have placed me in the unamiable light of supposing him capable of
meanness, or of not feeling myself the impropriety of the measure. I
confess to you, I had the weakness to value the esteem of a dying man,
because I reverenced his merit.

                                                   A. Hamilton.




SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.


                                      Albany, October 10, 1780.

My Dear Sir:

I am still confined to my room, but believe my disorder has taken a
favorable turn, and that I shall soon be tolerably restored.

Colonel Van Schaick informs me that he is ordered down with his
regiment. We are so sadly off here for directors, that I most sincerely
wish he had been permitted to remain here: his deafness will render him
little serviceable with his regiment.

I am informed that some people have recommended, or intend to
recommend, to the General, to evacuate Fort Schuyler. I hope it will
not take place, as the enemy would immediately occupy the ground,
and make it a receptacle for Indians and tories, from whence to pour
destruction on the country. A certain Lieutenant Laird, of the militia,
who was carried off, or went off voluntarily, with Sir John Johnson,
when last in the country, is returned, and advises that about two
thousand men were collected at St. John’s to make separate attacks on
the Grants, Saratoga, and the Mohawk river. If this be true, it was
probably intended as a co-operating plan, if Sir Harry had come up the
river. An Express is this moment arrived, announcing that about five
hundred men of the enemy are arrived at the Canajoharie Falls. If this
should be confirmed, I shall venture to advise Van Schaick to detain
his regiment, and hope it will meet the General’s approbation. It is
said the enemy are fortifying at Oswego. I hope the garrison for that
place will be speedily sent up.

When do you intend to be here? Who will accompany you? Is it probable
the General will pay us a visit in winter? I most earnestly wish
it. Will you make my excuses to the Marquis for my not writing him:
the Doctor will not permit me; but what is worse, I really have not
strength as yet. Entreat the General to accept of my best wishes: the
family share in them. Adieu, my dear sir.

                                                  I am, affectionately,
                                                  Yours, etc., etc.,
                                                  Ph. Schuyler.

Colonel Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO ISAAC SEARS.


                                      Boston, October 12, 1780.

I was much obliged to you, my dear sir, for the letter which you did me
the favor to write me since your return to Boston. I am sorry to find
that the same spirit of indifference to public affairs prevails. It is
necessary we should rouse, and begin to do our business in earnest, or
we shall play a losing game. It is impossible the contest can be much
longer supported on the present footing. We must have a Government with
more power. We must have a tax in kind. We must have a foreign loan.
We must have a Bank, on the true principles of a Bank. We must have
an Administration distinct from Congress, and in the hands of single
men under their orders. We must, above all things, have an army for
the war, and an establishment that will interest the officers in the
service.

Congress are deliberating on our military affairs: but I apprehend
their resolutions will be tinctured with the old spirit. We seem to be
proof against experience. They will, however, recommend an army for the
war, at least as a primary object. All those who love their country,
ought to exert their influence in the States where they reside, to
determine them to take up this object with energy. The States must sink
under the burden of temporary enlistments; and the enemy will conquer
us by degrees during the intervals of our weakness.

Clinton is now said to be making a considerable detachment to the
southward. My fears are high, my hopes low. We are told here, there
is to be a Congress of the neutral powers at the Hague, for mediating
of peace. God send it may be true. We want it: but if the idea goes
abroad, ten to one if we do not fancy the thing done, and fall into a
profound sleep till the cannon of the enemy awaken us next campaign.
This is our national character.

                                      I am, with great regard, dear Sir,
                                      Your most obedient servant,
                                      A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO DUANE.


                                                          Oct. 18, 1780.

My Dear Sir:

Since my last to you, I have had the pleasure of receiving two
letters from you. I am sorry to find we do not seem to agree in the
proper remedies to our disorder, at least in the practicability of
applying those which are proper. Convinced, as I am, of the absolute
insufficiency of our present system to our safety, if I do not despair
of the Republic, it is more the effect of constitution than of judgment.

With the sentiments I entertain of Gates, I cannot but take pleasure in
his removal; and with the confidence I have in Greene, I expect much
from his being the successor; at least, I expect all his circumstances
will permit. You seem to have mistaken me on the subject of this
gentleman. When I spoke of prejudice, I did not suppose it to exist
with you, but with Congress as a body; at least with a great part of
them. The part they have taken in the affair, in my opinion, does honor
to their impartiality. I hope they will support the officer appointed
with a liberal confidence; his situation surrounded with difficulties
will need support. Of your influence for this purpose I am too
thoroughly persuaded of your patriotism, my dear sir, to doubt.

Be assured, my dear sir, the marks of your regard give me a sincere
pleasure, and I shall be always happy to cultivate it, and to give you
proofs of my affectionate attachment.

                                                   A. Hamilton.




SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.


                                     Saratoga, Oct. 19th, 1780.

Dear Sir:

Your favor of the 12th inst., I had the pleasure to receive last night.
Major Carlton, as you will have heard, has been down to the vicinity
of this place, at the head of eight hundred British, about two hundred
enlisted tories, and as many Indians. Fort Ann and Fort George fell
into his hands; he burnt Kings and Queensborough townships, and the
north part of this district, to within five miles of my house. The
three months’ men have evacuated Fort Edward, so that I have nobody
between me and the enemy except two poor families, and about one
hundred militia with me; on the 17th about one hundred and fifty of the
enemy burnt Balstown, which lies about twenty miles below me and about
twelve miles west of the road leading to Albany; another party is about
eighteen miles east of me, where they have burnt about ten houses. The
very valuable settlement of Schoharie, which lays west of Albany, was
also entirely consumed on the 17th instant. Thus are we surrounded from
every quarter, and the inhabitants flying down the country. I believe
my turn will be in a few days, unless troops are sent up. Carlton is at
Ticonderoga and Mount Independence, and waits a reinforcement, which
is momentarily expected; my informant says he intends a second tour to
destroy the settlements on this river, as far as to where the Mohawk
River falls into it, which is about twenty-four miles below this. I
most sincerely wish that some continental troops were hastened up for
the protection of the county. I entreated Van Schaick to remain.

                                                   P. Schuyler.

  Col. Hamilton, from
  Gen’l Schuyler.





HARRISON TO HAMILTON.


                                                       October 27, 1780.

My Dear Hamilton:

We are only leaving Philadelphia. The most flattering attentions have
been paid to Meade and myself, and such as would not permit us to
progress before, unless we had shown ourselves entirely disregardless
of the great world. Besides, motives of a public nature concurred to
make us stay thus long. From all I have seen and heard, there is a good
disposition in Congress to do all they can for the army and the public
interest; and there are many very sensible men among them. In general,
they are most warmly attached to the General; and his recommendations
will have their weight while the same spirit prevails. It is said there
has been infinitely more harmony among them for some time past, than
has appeared since the first years of their appointment. I am not,
however, without some apprehension, that if they proceed in the case
of Lee, etc., the MONSTER (PARTY) may show itself again, and that we may
have a second edition of the measures adopted in the instance of Deane.
Our friends Sullivan and Carroll have been of great service: and
gentlemen who are, or pretend to be, in the secrets of the cabinet,
say they have contributed immeasurably, by their independent conduct,
to destroy the EASTERN ALLIANCE. Bland is very clever, and without
question wishes to push on in the true and right road. Grayson says
this is the best Congress we have had since the first. Our dear Laurens
respects many of the members: and General Greene’s appointment, I
believe, is entirely consonant to the wishes of Congress in general,
though we have heard there were members much disposed, if facts had
not been so obstinate, to excuse General Gates. The former is here,
and I suppose will set out in a day or two. Meade and I will serve
him all we can. We have done what we could already. Apropos, you
delivered him my letter. Our finances are entirely deranged, and there
is little or no money in the treasury. I believe they are a subject
of much consideration and puzzlement. The supplies of the army are
also matters of present attention, but I don’t know what will be
done. I hope we shall, by Christmas, have some clothing from the West
Indies, if the moth have not destroyed it: a quantity, it is said, has
been lying there. It is much to be wished that General Greene were
at the South. The delegates from that quarter think the situation of
Cornwallis delicate, and that by management, and a proper application
and use of the force there, the late check given Furguson might be
improved into the Earl’s total defeat. This, I fear, is too much even
to hope. The sending the Baron is considered, as far as I have heard,
perfectly right, and Lee’s corps give great satisfaction. I am just
about to mount my horse, and therefore shall say but little more.
Laurens will write unto you in a few days, I suppose, and communicate
any new occurrences. My love to the lads of the family. The same to
you. May you be long happy. My most respectful compliments to the
General.

                                          Most truly and affectionately,
                                          Rob. H. Harrison.

P. S. The Board have been absolutely too poor to procure parchment for
the many promotions that have been required.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                                                   1780.

Dear Hamilton:

I shall be obliged to you for the answer to the address, as soon as it
is convenient to you. If we do not ride to the Point to see the fleet
pass out, I am to have a conference with Count de Rochambeau, and the
engineer, directly after breakfast, at which I wish you to be present.

                                I am sincerely and affectionately yours,
                                Geo. Washington.

Half-past, A. M.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                                                     November 22d, 1780.

Inclosed, my dear Hamilton, I send you a letter for Mr. De Marbois,
wherein are contained two exemplaires of my dispatches to Doctor
Franklin. In the hurry of our arrangement, I forgot to mention them
to the General. Be pleased to give him a summary of their contents,
to which I have added the southern news of yesterday. Tell him that,
knowing from experience, how negligent we were in sending accounts to
Europe, I take upon myself to forward such as may influence mediating
powers in case of a negotiation.

I have made a calculation about boats, and think that if _we act upon
a large scale_ in the Staten Island expedition, we ought to have
forty boats--about a thousand (the hundred artillery included) for
the watering place and Richmond; your attack should have two hundred.
In this calculation I put the staff and other officers, &c., twelve
hundred men, or thirty per boat, makes forty boats; at least we ought
not to have much less.

Let me know, my dear friend, if what we were speaking of last night,
and the night before last, will be complied with. In consequence of
what was said by the General, I was set at liberty to speak fully to
G., who was charmed with the beauty and propriety of the thing. I am
fully, fully of opinion that we would be very sorry not to go (at least
conditionally), upon that plan, which perhaps will be as easy as any
thing else: we may even say, il est beau même d’en tomber. Adieu; write
me upon what scale, that I may prepare my troops. To-morrow we must
carry your private affair. Show me your letter before you give it.

                                                    Yours,
                                                    La Fayette.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                                      November 22, 1780.

Dear Sir:

Some time last fall, when I spoke to your Excellency about going to
the southward, I explained to you candidly my feelings with respect to
military reputation; and how much it was my object to act a conspicuous
part in some enterprise, that might perhaps raise my character as a
soldier above mediocrity. You were so good as to say, you would be glad
to furnish me with an occasion. When the expedition to Staten Island
was afoot, a favorable one seemed to offer. There was a battalion
without a field officer, the command of which, I thought, as it
was accidental, might be given to me without inconvenience. I made
an application for it through the Marquis, who informed me of your
refusal on two principles: one, that the giving me a whole battalion
might be a subject of dissatisfaction; the other, that if any accident
should happen to me in the present state of your family, you would be
embarrassed for the necessary assistance.

The project you now have in contemplation affords another opportunity.
I have a variety of reasons, that press me to desire ardently to have
it in my power to improve it. I take the liberty to observe, that
the command may now be proportioned to my rank; and that the second
objection ceases to operate, as, during the period of establishing
our winter quarters, there will be a suspension of material business:
besides which, my peculiar situation will, in any case, call me away
from the army in a few days, and Mr. Harrison may be expected back
early next month. My command may consist of one hundred and fifty or
two hundred men, composed of fifty men of Major Gibbes’ corps, fifty
from Colonel Meigs’ regiment, and fifty or a hundred more from the
light infantry: Major Gibbes to be my Major. The hundred men from here
may move on Friday morning towards ----, which will strengthen the
appearances for Staten Island, to form a junction on the other side of
the Passaic. I suggest this mode to avoid the complaints that might
arise from composing my party wholly of the Light Infantry, which might
give umbrage to the officers of that corps, who, on this plan, can have
no just subject for it.

The primary idea may be, if circumstances permit, to attempt with my
detachment Bayard’s Hill. Should we arrive early enough to undertake
it, I should prefer it to any thing else, both for the brilliancy
of the attempt in itself, and the decisive consequence of which its
success would be productive. If we arrive too late to make this
eligible (as there is reason to apprehend), my corps may form the van
of one of the other attacks, and Bayard’s Hill will be a pretext for
my being employed in the affair, on a supposition of my knowing the
ground, which is partly true. I flatter myself, also, that my military
character stands so well in the army, as to reconcile the officers, in
general, to the measure. All circumstances considered, I venture to
say, any exceptions which might be taken, would be unreasonable.

I take this method of making the request, to avoid the embarrassment
of a personal explanation. I shall only add, that however much I have
the matter at heart, I wish your Excellency entirely to consult your
own inclination, and not, from a disposition to oblige me, to do any
thing that may be disagreeable to you. It will, nevertheless, make me
singularly happy if your wishes correspond with mine.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                                    Paramus, November 28, 1780.

Dear Hamilton:

Here I arrived last night, and am going to set out for Philadelphia.
Gouvion goes straight to New Windsor, and by him I write to the
General. I speak of Hand and Smith, whom I recommend, and add: “If,
however, you were to cast your eye on a man, who, I think, would suit
better than any other in the world, Hamilton is, I confess, the officer
whom I would like best to see in my * * * * *.” Then I go on with the
idea, that, at equal advantages, you deserve from him the preference;
that your advantages are the greatest; I speak of a co-operation;
of your being in the family; and conclude, that on every public and
private account I advise him to take you.

I know the General’s friendship and gratitude for you, my dear
Hamilton: both are greater than you perhaps imagine. I am sure he needs
only to be told that something will suit you, and when he thinks he
can do it he certainly will. Before this campaign I was your friend,
and very intimate friend, agreeably to the ideas of the world. Since
my second voyage, my sentiment has increased to such a point the world
knows nothing about. To show _both_, from want and from scorn of
expressions, I shall only tell you--Adieu.

                                                    Yours,
                                                    La Fayette.




DE CORNY TO HAMILTON.


                                       Newport, 4th Dec., 1780.

Sir:

The ill state of my health obliges me to request permission to
return to France, for as short a time as possible. I must, before my
departure, acquit myself of the double duty of thanking you for the
favors with which you have honored me, and of soliciting your orders
for my country. The satisfaction I feel of being chosen to accompany
the Marquis de la Fayette, and of executing under his orders, the
dispositions necessary to the arrival of the French army, which, as
an interesting period of my life, will not be superior to that of
returning to give our great and good General Washington new proofs of
my zeal. I shall always be honored in being reckoned one of your most
faithful comrades. I wish that happiness, success and glory follow you
for ever.

                             I am, with everlasting attachment,
                             Your most humble and most obedient servant,
                             Estris de Corny,
                             Lt. Colonel of Cavalry.

I pray you to present my friendship and full compliments to the
General’s family.

Col. Hamilton.




DU PORTAIL TO HAMILTON.


                                                                   1780.

Je vous prie, mon cher Colonel, de lire les papiers ci-joints, ils vous
mettront au fait de ce dont il s’agit. Nous avons déjà parlé ensemble
de cet objet, ainsi il est inutile d’y revenir, il est certain que
si Son Excellence ne vous favorit point dans ces occasions, il nous
est absolument impossible pour nous mêmes de nous tirer d’embarras.
L’homme dont il est question, et qui est celui qui vous remettra cette
lettre, sert lui-même à prouver le peu de ressources que nous avons
dans ce genre. M. de Vellefranche en avait été si mécontent la campagne
dernière, qu’il l’avait renvoyé, et n’en voulait plus entendre parler.
L’impossibilité d’en trouver un autre le force de le reprendre; il
ne demande pas mieux assurément que de le changer, il fait tous ses
efforts pour cela, il frappe à toutes les portes, mais inutilement.

Il est bien aisé de faire de belles loix pour corriger les abus; tout
le monde voit les abus, tout le monde peut se faire valoir en déclamant
d’autre, mais déterminer, presque les circonstances permettent, de
corriger l’abus, en supprimant des moyens abusifs de faire une chose en
substituer d’autres voilà ce que les Réformateurs Croyans ne font pas
toujours.

Vous expliquerez cela à qui il appartient, probablement vous ne vous
tromperez pas, au fait dont je vous prie de donner à M. de Villefranche
un mot comme vous l’avez donné à M. de Rochefontaine.

Je suis, mon cher Colonel, dans une totale défaute de livres anglais;
j’en ai réluqué un sur la table aujourd’hui, que le Colonel Harrison
m’a dit que vous lisiez, mais je pense que vous ne lisez pas les deux
volumes à la fois. Si vous pouviez m’en prêter un, vous obligeriez
beaucoup votre très humble serviteur.

                                                    Du Portail.

Je vous prie de me renvoyer les papiers en cachets.

                                                    Du Portail.

Col. Hamilton.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                                    Philadelphia, Dec. 9, 1780.

Dear Hamilton:

On my arrival at Paramus, I wrote a letter to the General, which
Colonel Gouvion was to deliver to himself at New Windsor; so that more
expedition had been made than you had thought. But the General having
unfortunately altered his mind, and taken the road to Morristown,
another misfortune threw Hand in his way; and remembering your advice
on the occasion, he hastened to make him the proposition, and in
consequence of it wrote his letter to Congress. From Paramus I went
myself to the Lots, and from thence to Morristown, where I met the
General; and knowing that my letter could not reach him under some
days, I became regardless of your wishes, and made a verbal application
in my own name, and about the same time that had been settled between
us. I can’t express to you, my dear friend, how sorry and disappointed
I felt, when I knew from him, the General, that (greatly in consequence
of your advice) he had settled the whole matter with Hand, and written
for him to Congress. I confess I became warmer on the occasion than
you would perhaps have wished me to be; and I wanted the General to
allow my sending an express, who would have overtaken the letter, as it
was in the hands of General St. Clair: but the General did not think it
to be a convenient measure; and, I confess, I may have been a little
blinded on its propriety. I took care not to compromise you in this
affair, when the General expressed a desire to serve you, and in a
manner you would have been satisfied with. Now for the voyage to France.

Congress seem resolved that an _Envoy be sent in the way you wish_, and
this was yesterday determined in the House. Next Monday the gentleman
will be elected. I have already spoken to many members. I know of a
number of voices that will be for you. This day, and that of to-morrow,
will be by me employed in paying visits. As soon as the business is
fixed upon, I shall send you an express. I think you ought to hold
yourself in readiness, and in case you are called for, come with all
possible speed; for you must go immediately, that you may have returned
before the beginning of operations. If you go, my dear sir, I shall
give you all public or private knowledge about Europe I am possessed
of. Besides many private letters, that may introduce you to my friends,
I intend giving you the _key_ of the cabinet, as well as of the
societies which influence them. In a word, my good friend, any thing in
my power shall be entirely yours.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                          Albany, Dec. 9, 1780.

Dear Sir:

Mr. Rensselaer, who has the direction of the Armory here, tells me that
the Board of War write him, they are unable to support it any longer
on the present establishment for want of supplies, and propose to him
to endeavor to have it carried on by contract. This he declares is
impossible. The Armory must either continue on the present footing
or cease. As far as I understand the matter, there is no objection
to the terms in themselves, but a want of means to comply with them.
If there is a want of means, the thing must be relinquished; but as
it does not strike me that it can be more difficult to maintain an
Armory here than elsewhere; and as I apprehend, in the present state
of Arsenals, we shall stand in need of all the repairing we can do; I
take the liberty, at Mr. Rensselaer’s request, to mention the matter
to you. I have seen the Armory myself. It appears to be in excellent
order, and under a very ingenious and industrious man. I am told it
has been conducted hitherto with great activity. Its situation is, in
my opinion, advantageous. As there is a considerable body of troops
always at West Point, and the army generally in its vicinity, the river
is very convenient for transportation to and from the Armory; and, I
should think, would be conducive to economy. This consideration strikes
me as of importance. General Knox, however, will be the best judge of
the usefulness of this Armory.

Mr. Rensselaer also mentions a considerable number of hides in the
hands of persons here who had had orders from the Clothier-General not
to dispose of them but by his order. He says he can no longer, but with
great difficulty, procure leather for the public works on credit; and
has requested me to mention this also to your Excellency.

Mrs. Hamilton presents her respectful compliments to Mrs. Washington
and yourself. After the holidays we shall be at head quarters.

I believe I imparted to you General Schuyler’s wish that you could make
it convenient to pay a visit with Mrs. Washington this winter. He and
Mrs. Schuyler have several times repeated their inquiries and wishes. I
have told them I was afraid your business would not permit you: if it
should I shall be happy. You will enable me to let them know about what
period it will suit. When the sleighing arrives, it will be an affair
of two days up and two days down.

                                                   I have, etc.,
                                                   A. Hamilton.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                    New-Windsor, Dec. 27, 1780.

Dear Hamilton:

Your letter of the 19th came safe by the Doctor, who set out this
morning for Philadelphia.

I had, previous to the receipt of it, and without knowledge that the
Board of War had given any direction respecting the Armory at Albany,
requested the Governor to exempt (if he could do so with propriety) the
citizens who were employed in it, from military services in case of
alarm; and had written to General Clinton to direct the Quarter-Master
to afford every assistance in his power to have the work repaired, and
the business, as far as depended upon him, accelerated. I have now
given order for delivery of such hides as Mr. Rensselaer shall find
_absolutely_ necessary for the use of the Armory.

Although a trip to Albany, on more accounts than one, would be
perfectly agreeable to my wishes, I am so far from having it in my
power, at this time, to fix a period for this gratification of them,
that I have but small hope of accomplishing it at all this winter.
There are some matters in suspense which may make a journey to Rhode
Island necessary; but as the subject is not fit for a letter, I shall
withhold the communication till I see you.

A second embarkation has taken place at New-York. The strength of the
detachment, or its destination, are vaguely reported; and no certainty
under whose command it goes. Arnold is said to be of it; from whence
the connections conclude that New-Haven or New-London must infallibly
be the object, while more rational conjecturers send it to the
southward, from whence no late accounts have been received.

Mrs. Washington most cordially joins me in compliments of
congratulation to Mrs. Hamilton and yourself, on the late happy event
of your marriage, and in wishes to see you both at head quarters. We
beg of you to present our respectful compliments to General Schuyler,
his lady and family, and offer them strong assurances of the pleasure
we should feel at seeing them at New-Windsor.

                             With much truth, and great personal regard,
                             I am, dear Hamilton,
                             Your affectionate friend and servant,
                             G. Washington.




GREENE TO HAMILTON.


                                                       January 10, 1781.

My Dear Colonel:

General Du Portail being on his way to the northward, gives me an
opportunity to write you, which I should have done before, had not my
letters to His Excellency contained as full information of the state of
things as I was able to give, from the little time I had been in the
department.

When I was appointed to this command, I expected to meet with many
new and singular difficulties; but they infinitely exceed what I
apprehended. This is really carrying on a war in an enemy’s country;
for you cannot establish the most inconsiderable magazine, or convey
the smallest quantity of stores from one post to another, without
being obliged to detach guards for their security. The division among
the people is much greater than I imagined; and the whigs and tories
persecute each other with little less than savage fury. There is
nothing but murders and devastations in every quarter.

The loss of our army at Charleston, and the defeat of General Gates,
has been the cause of keeping such shoals of militia on foot; and their
service has been accompanied with such destruction and loss, as has
almost laid waste the whole country. Nothing has been more destructive
to the true interest of this country than the mode adopted for its
defence. Two misfortunes happening one after the other, may have
rendered it unavoidable the last season; but should it be continued,
the inhabitants are inevitably ruined, and the resources of the country
rendered incapable of affording support to an army competent to
its defence. Government here is infinitely more popular than to the
northward; and there is no such thing as national character or national
sentiment. The inhabitants are from all quarters of the globe, and as
various in their opinions, projects, and schemes, as their manners and
habits are from their early education. Those in office, from a vanity
to be thought powerful, join in the measure of imposing upon the public
respecting the strength and resources of these southern States: and
while Congress, and the minister of France, are kept under this fatal
delusion, I fear little support will be given to this department. The
inhabitants are numerous; but they would be rather formidable abroad
than at home. They are scattered over such a vast extent of country,
that it is difficult to collect, and still more difficult to subsist
them. There is a great spirit of enterprise among the black people; and
those that come out as volunteers are not a little formidable to the
enemy. There are, also, some particular corps under Sumpter, Marion,
and Clarke, that are bold and daring; the rest of the militia are
better calculated to destroy provisions than oppose the enemy.

At Philadelphia, and all my journey through the country, I endeavored
to impress upon those in power, the necessity of sending clothing, and
supplies of every kind, immediately to this army. But poverty was urged
as a plea, in bar to every application. They all promised fair, but I
fear will do but little: ability is wanting with some, and inclination
with others.

Public credit is so totally lost, that private people will not give
their aid, though they see themselves involved in one common ruin.
It is my opinion that General Washington’s influence will do more
than all the assemblies upon the continent. I always thought him
exceeding popular; but in many places he is little less than adored,
and universally admired. His influence in this country might possibly
effect something great. However, I found myself exceedingly well
received, but more from being the friend of the General, than from my
own merit.

This country wants, for its defence, a small but well appointed army,
organized so as to move with great celerity. It should consist of
about five thousand infantry, and from eight hundred to a thousand
horse. The enemy cannot maintain a larger force in this quarter,
neither can we. The resources from the country are too small to subsist
a large body of troops at any one point: and to draw supplies from a
distance, through such long tracts of barren land, will be next to
impossible, unless the business can be aided by a water transportation;
and, in either case, it will be accompanied with an amazing expense.
Could we get a superiority of horse, we could soon render it difficult
for Lord Cornwallis to hold his position so far in the country. Nor
should I be under any apprehensions, with a much inferior force to
his, of taking post near him, if I had but such a body of horse. But
the enemy’s horse is so much superior to ours, that we cannot move a
detachment towards them without hazarding its ruin.

When I came to the army, I found it in a most wretched condition. The
officers had lost all confidence in the General, and the troops all
their discipline. The troops had not only lost their discipline, but
they were so addicted to plundering that they were a terror to the
country. The General and I met at least upon very civil terms; and he
expressed the greatest happiness at my being appointed to succeed him.

General Smallwood and he were not upon good terms; the former suspected
the latter of having an intention to supplant him, but many think
without reason. Others, again, are of opinion, his suspicions were well
founded, and that Smallwood was not a little mortified at my being
appointed to this department, and got outrageous when he heard Baron
Steuben was coming also. How the matter was, I know not; certain it
is, he is gone home, having refused to act under Baron Steuben, and
declares he will not serve at all, unless Congress will give him a
commission, dated at least two years before his appointment. This, I
think, can never happen, notwithstanding his private merit, and the
claim of the State. The battle of Camden here is represented widely
different from what it is to the northward.

Colonel Williams thinks that none of the general officers were entitled
to any extraordinary merit. The action was short, and succeeded by a
flight, wherein every body took care of himself, as well officers
as soldiers. Not an officer, except Major Anderson, and one or two
Captains, that brought off the field of battle a single soldier. The
Colonel also says, that General Gates would have shared little more
disgrace than is the common lot of the unfortunate, notwithstanding he
was early off, if he had only halted at the Waxhaws or Charlotte--the
first about sixty, and the last about eighty miles from the field of
battle. What little incidents either give or destroy reputation! How
many long hours a man may labor with an honest zeal in his country’s
service, and be disgraced for the most trifling error either in conduct
or opinion! Hume very justly observes, no man will have reputation
unless he is useful to society, be his merit or abilities what they
may. Therefore, it is necessary for a man to be fortunate, as well as
wise and just. The greater part of the loss of the Maryland line, in
the action of Camden, happened after they began to retreat: indeed,
this was the case with all the troops. What gave Smallwood such great
reputation, was his halt at Salisbury, which was nothing but accident.
You know there are great parties prevailing in the Maryland line; and
perhaps his merit is not a little diminished on that account. I think
him a brave and good officer, but too slow to effect any thing great
in a department like this, where embarrassments are without number,
and where nothing can be effected without the greatest promptitude and
decision. This army is in such a wretched condition that I hardly know
what to do with it. The officers have got such a habit of negligence,
and the soldiers so loose and disorderly, that it is next to impossible
to give it a military complexion. Without clothing, I am sure I shall
never do it. I call no councils of war, and I communicate my intentions
to very few. The army was posted at Charlotte when I came up with
it; and in a council it had been determined to winter there; but the
difficulty of procuring subsistence, and other reasons, induced me not
only to take a new position, but to make an entire new disposition.
All this I effected by a single order, having first made the necessary
inquiry respecting the new positions, by sending a man to examine
the grounds and other requisites. If I cannot inspire the army with
confidence and respect by an independent conduct, I foresee it will
be impossible to instil discipline and order among the troops. General
Leslie has arrived, and joined Lord Cornwallis, whose force now is more
than three times larger than ours. And we are subsisting ourselves by
our own industry; and I am not without hopes of forming something like
a magazine. I am laboring also to get clothing from every quarter.
Baron Steuben is in Virginia, and is indefatigable in equipping and
forwarding the troops from that State. I left General Guest in Maryland
for the same purpose; but I have got nothing from there yet, nor do
I expect much for months to come. The North Carolina State have such
a high opinion of the militia, that I don’t expect they will ever
attempt to raise a single continental soldier; notwithstanding the most
sensible among them will acknowledge the folly of employing militia.

But I must have tried your patience, and therefore will make a full
stop concerning matters in this department, and inquire how you go on
to the northward.

       *       *       *       *       *

I beg my compliments to General Washington’s family, to General Knox
and his family, and all other of my acquaintances.

I shall be exceedingly obliged to you if you will communicate to me,
with great freedom, every thing worthy of note that is said or respects
this department.

                                                   Yours affectionately,
                                                   N. Greene.

To Col. Alexander Hamilton.




MEADE TO HAMILTON.


                                                       January 13, 1781.

What shall I say, or think, of my dear friend Hamilton? Not a single
line from him since we parted. I will not, however, charge you, my dear
fellow, with not having done your duty, or, at least, of a want of
inclination to do it: you may have complied fully with your promise,
and your letters miscarried: mine probably have shared the same fate.
This is the third since I got home. The first was writ shortly after
General Greene’s arrival at Richmond, and committed to his care; the
second, telling you I was married, had not so favorable a prospect of
conveyance; and this must take its chance.

Arnold, you knew, was coming here. He has really been here, and, with
shame be it said, marched twenty-five miles, and back, without having
a single musket fired at him: but let me observe, in justice to the
people at large, that there are fewer disaffected by far, in this
State, than any other in the Union; and that the people turn out with
the utmost cheerfulness. The misfortune, on the present invasion, was,
that in the confusion the arms were sent every where, and no timely
plan laid to put them into the hands of the men who were assembling.
The Baron has, no doubt, given the General the particulars of the
whole affair. Should he not have done it, I must refer you for them to
Rivington’s paper: he can hardly be himself, and say any thing on the
subject that ought not to be credited. The damage, however, done by the
enemy is not considerable, and much less than might have been expected
from them. My friends have suffered. I have often felt much pain, my
dear Hamilton, at scenes of the kind to the northward, but never in
so great a degree as on this occasion. The nearest and dearest to me
were within reach of the enemy; wife, mother, brother, sister; and all
have shared deeply in the distress; and, indeed, many of them were in
personal danger, and my best friend of the number; myself of course
somewhat exposed. You possess a heart that can feel for me; you have a
female, too, that you love. * * * * * After placing her, with at least
twenty other females and children, at a safe distance, I immediately
returned, and joined the Baron about the time the enemy left Richmond,
in order to render him all the aid I could, being intimately acquainted
with the country for many miles in the vicinity of the enemy: and
on their return down the river, I left him to go in pursuit of a
residence for a favorite brother who was driven from his home, and
obliged to attend to his wife and a family of little children.

       *       *       *       *       *

This gives me an opening to speak of my return to the army. I have been
long wishing your advice in full on the occasion. You are acquainted
with the arguments I have used in favor of my stay here. * * * * * I
have not, however, as yet, thrown off the uniform, but I am inclined to
believe it must be the case. If we meet not again, my dear Hamilton, as
brother aids, I still flatter myself that, in the course of time, we
shall meet as the sincerest of friends. If you have not already writ to
me, my dear fellow, let me entreat you, when you go about it, to fill
a sheet in close hand. Say all about yourself first, and next, what
may be most interesting and new to me, for I have not heard a syllable
from camp since I left it. I wrote to the “Old Secretary” while he was
in Virginia, but could not hear from him. Tell him that I suffered
not a little on his account, for I conceived, for a long time, that
his cousin’s unlucky fall from his horse had happened to him: such an
opinion had like to have carried me to Alexandria.

I am under the necessity of concluding, but first let me present my
respects to the General and Mrs. Washington, my sincerest esteem to
the lads of the family, and every officer of the army whom you know I
regard.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                                   Your sincere friend,
                                                   R. R. Meade.




SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.


                                      Albany, January 25, 1781.

Dear Sir:

Yesterday I received your favor of the sixteenth instant. It affords
me pleasure to learn that the Pennsylvania line is reduced to order;
but we in this quarter are on the point of experiencing a similar
commotion. Two regiments threaten to march to head quarters, unless
some money is paid them, the certificates for the depreciation
expedited, and, in future, better supplied with provisions. Yesterday,
about three thousand bushels of wheat, six hundred pounds worth of beef
and three or four thousand dollars, were subscribed. I am in hopes
we shall procure what will afford each man about ten dollars; and I
have some hopes that this, with a little management, will render them
tolerably quiet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Entreat the General and his lady to accept my best wishes. Do not
forget to remember me to Colonels Harrison and Tilghman. Adieu.

                                                  I am, dear Sir,
                                                  Most affectionately,
                                                  Yours, etc., etc.,
                                                  Ph: Schuyler.

Colonel Hamilton.




SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.


                                      Albany, February 5, 1781.

Dear Sir:

The plan you mention for supplying the armies in America, I should
be exceedingly happy to see attempted; but I fear Congress will not
venture on it, although they should be convinced of its eligibility.
In the course of last year, I proposed it repeatedly to individual
members, who generally approved, and once or twice took occasion to
mention it in Congress; but in the House no one dared to give his
opinion. I am persuaded, if it was adopted, that a saving, at present
almost inconceivable, would be induced, and an order and economy in the
public expenditures, which, whilst it would reconcile the minds of men
to bear the public burthens with alacrity, would effectually eradicate
the fears which too generally prevail, that we shall sink under the
enormous weight of our expenses. * * *

                                                  I am, my dear Sir,
                                                  Very affectionately,
                                                  Yours, etc., etc.,
                                                  Ph: Schuyler.

Colonel Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO SCHUYLER.


                 Head Quarters, New Windsor, February 18, 1781.

My Dear Sir:

Since I had the pleasure of writing you last, an unexpected change
has taken place in my situation. I am no longer a member of the
General’s family. This information will surprise you, and the manner
of the change will surprise you more. Two days ago, the General and
I passed each other on the stairs. He told me he wanted to speak to
me. I answered that I would wait upon him immediately. I went below,
and delivered Mr. Tilghman a letter to be sent to the commissary,
containing an order of a pressing and interesting nature.

Returning to the General, I was stopped on the way by the Marquis de
La Fayette, and we conversed together about a minute on a matter of
business. He can testify how impatient I was to get back, and that
I left him in a manner which, but for our intimacy, would have been
more than abrupt. Instead of finding the General, as is usual, in his
room, I met him at the head of the stairs, where, accosting me in an
angry tone, “Colonel Hamilton,” said he, “you have kept me waiting
at the head of the stairs these ten minutes. I must tell you, sir,
you treat me with disrespect.” I replied, without petulancy, but with
decision, “I am not conscious of it, sir; but since you have thought
it necessary to tell me so, we part.” “Very well, sir,” said he, “if
it be your choice,” or something to this effect, and we separated.
I sincerely believe my absence, which gave so much umbrage, did
not last two minutes. In less than an hour after, Tilghman came to
me in the General’s name, assuring me of his great confidence in my
abilities, integrity, usefulness, etc.; and of his desire, in a candid
conversation, to heal a difference which could not have happened but in
a moment of passion. I requested Mr. Tilghman to tell him--1st. That I
had taken my resolution in a manner not to be revoked. 2d. That, as a
conversation could serve no other purpose than to produce explanations,
mutually disagreeable, though I certainly would not refuse an interview
if he desired it, yet I would be happy if he would permit me to decline
it. 3d. That though determined to leave the family, the same principles
which had kept me so long in it, would continue to direct my conduct
towards him when out of it. 4th. That, however, I did not wish to
distress him, or the public business, by quitting him before he could
derive other assistance by the return of some of the gentlemen who were
absent. 5th. And that, in the mean time, it depended on him, to let
our behavior to each other be the same as if nothing had happened. He
consented to decline the conversation, and thanked me for my offer of
continuing my aid in the manner I had mentioned.

I have given you so particular a detail of our difference, from the
desire I have to justify myself in your opinion. Perhaps you may think
I was precipitate in rejecting the overture made by the General to an
accommodation. I must assure you, my dear sir, it was not the effect of
resentment: it was the deliberate result of maxims I had long formed
for the government of my own conduct.

I always disliked the office of an aid-de-camp, as having in it a
kind of personal dependence. I refused to serve in this capacity with
two Major-Generals, at an early period of the war. Infected, however,
with the enthusiasm of the times, an idea of the General’s character
overcame my scruples, and induced me to accept his invitation to enter
into his family * * *. It has been often with great difficulty that I
have prevailed upon myself not to renounce it; but while, from motives
of public utility, I was doing violence to my feelings, I was always
determined, if there should ever happen a breach between us, never to
consent to an accommodation. I was persuaded, that when once that nice
barrier, which marked the boundaries of what we owed to each other,
should be thrown down, it might be propped again, but could never be
restored.

The General is a very honest man. His competitors have slender
abilities, and less integrity. His popularity has often been essential
to the safety of America, and is still of great importance to it. These
considerations have influenced my past conduct respecting him, and will
influence my future. I think it is necessary he should be supported.

His estimation in your mind, whatever may be its amount, I am persuaded
has been formed on principles, which a circumstance like this cannot
materially effect: but if I thought it could diminish your friendship
for him, I should almost forego the motives that urge me to justify
myself to you. I wish what I have said, to make no other impression
than to satisfy you I have not been in the wrong. It is also said in
confidence, as a public knowledge of the breach would, in many ways,
have an ill effect. It will probably be the policy of both sides to
conceal it, and cover the separation with some plausible pretext. I am
importuned by such of my friends as are privy to the affair, to listen
to a reconciliation; but my resolution is unalterable.

As I cannot think of quitting the army during the war, I have a project
of re-entering into the artillery, by taking Lieutenant-Colonel
Forrest’s place, who is desirous of retiring on half-pay. I have not,
however, made up my mind upon this head, as I should be obliged to come
in the youngest Lieutenant-Colonel instead of the eldest, which I ought
to have been by natural succession, had I remained in the corps; and,
at the same time, to resume studies relative to the profession, which,
to avoid inferiority, must be laborious.

If a handsome command in the campaign in the light infantry should
offer itself, I shall balance between this and the artillery. My
situation in the latter would be more solid and permanent; but as I
hope the war will not last long enough to make it progressive, this
consideration has the less force. A command for the campaign, would
leave me the winter to prosecute studies relative to my future career
in life * * *. I have written to you on this subject with all the
freedom and confidence to which you have a right, and with an assurance
of the interest you take in all that concerns me.

                                      Very sincerely and affectionately,
                                      I am, dear Sir,
                                      Your most obedient servant,
                                      A. Hamilton.

General Schuyler.




LAURENS TO HAMILTON.


                                                                   1781.

I am indebted to you, my dear Hamilton, for two letters; the first
from Albany, as masterly a piece of cynicism as ever was penned; the
other from Philadelphia, dated the second March: in both, you mention
a design of retiring, which makes me exceedingly unhappy. I would not
wish to have you, for a moment, withdrawn from the public service: at
the same time, my friendship for you, and knowledge of your value to
the United States, make me most ardently desire, that you should fill
only the first offices of the Republic. I was flattered with an account
of your being elected a delegate from New-York, and am much mortified
not to hear it confirmed by yourself. I must confess to you, that, at
the present stage of the war, I should prefer your going into Congress,
and from thence becoming a minister plenipotentiary for peace, to your
remaining in the army, where the dull system of seniority, and the
_tableau_, would prevent you from having the important commands to
which you are entitled: but at any rate I will not have you renounce
your rank in the army, unless you entered the career above mentioned.
Your private affairs cannot require such immediate and close attention.
You speak like a _paterfamilias_ surrounded with a numerous progeny.

I had, in fact, resumed the black project, as you were informed,
and urged the matter very strenuously, both to our privy council
and legislative body; but I was out-voted, having only reason on my
side, and being opposed by a triple-headed monster, that shed the
baneful influence of avarice, prejudice, and pusillanimity, in all
our assemblies. It was some consolation to me, however, to find that
philosophy and truth had made some little progress since my last
effort, as I obtained twice as many suffrages as before.




DUKE DE LAUZUN TO HAMILTON.

                                A Lebanon, le 26 Février, 1781.

Permettez moi, Monsieur, de vous adresser une lettre pour le Marquis
de Lafayette, ne sachant où il est. Je ne veux point importuner son
Excellence dans un moment où tant d’affaires l’accablent. M. de Closen,
Aide-de-Camp de M. le Comte de Rochambeau, lui porte des dépêches
importantes; M. le Marquis de Laval paraît destiné à commander un
détachement de Grenadiers, et chasseurs de l’Armée Française. Je vous
supplie de vouloir bien rappeler au Général, que de quelque maniere
qu’il me juge utile, je me trouverai heureux d’être employé, et qu’il
veuille bien témoigner à M. de Rochambeau que ce choix ne lui sera pas
désagréable.

Recevez les excuses de mon Importunité, et les assurances de tous les
sentiments d’estime et de considération, avec lesquels j’ai l’honneur
d’être, Monsieur, votre très humble et très obéissant serviteur.

                                                     De Lauzun.




HARRISON TO HAMILTON.


                                   New Windsor, March 26, 1781.

I came here, my dear Hamilton, on Friday night, to bid adieu to the
General, to you, and to my other friends, as a military man, and regret
much that I have not had the happiness of seeing you. To-morrow I am
obliged to depart; and it is possible our separation may be for ever.
But be this as it may, it can only be with respect to our persons; for
as to affection, mine for you will continue to my latest breath. This
event will probably surprise you; but from your knowledge of me, I rely
you will conclude, at the instant, that no light considerations would
have taken me from the army; and I think I might safely have rested the
matter here. However, as the friendship between us gives you a claim
to something more, and as I am not indifferent about character, and
shall be anxious to have the esteem of all who are good, and virtuously
great, I shall detail to you, my friend, the more substantial reasons
which have led to my present conduct. I go from the army, then, because
I have found, on examination, that my little fortune, earned by an
honest and hard industry, was becoming embarrassed--to attend to the
education of my children--to provide, if possible, for the payment of
a considerable sum of sterling money and interest, with which I stand
charged, on account of the land I lately received from my honored
father, for equality of partition between myself and two brothers--to
save a house which he had begun, and which, without instant attention,
would be ruined, or at least greatly injured--to provide, if possible,
for the payment of goods, which far exceed any profits I can make from
my estate--and because the State of Maryland, in a flattering manner,
have been pleased to appoint me to a place, very respectable in its
nature, corresponding with my former, and very interesting to my
whole future life and support. They have appointed me to the Chair of
their Supreme Court. These, my friend, are the motives to my present
resolution. My own feelings are satisfied on the occasion, though
I cannot but regret parting with the most valuable acquaintances I
have; and I hope they will justify me most fully to you, my Hamilton,
especially when you consider, besides, the time I have been in service,
and the compensation I have received. I wish, seriously, I had been
sooner apprised of the good intentions of the State towards me, for
reasons which will occur to you. They were but very lately known, and
I was no sooner possessed of them, than I communicated the matter (that
I should leave the army) to the General--having found, on inquiry,
it was only in my power to accept the offer of the Chair, or decline
it for ever, as the filling it had become a measure of immediate
necessity; and there were other gentlemen, both of ability and merit,
who had been mentioned for it, and who would probably have willingly
accepted it. You are now to pardon me for this long relation, so very
personal. You must do it, as what I owed to your friendship produced
it, and as it is my hope and wish to stand fair in your opinion and
esteem.

I proceed to tell you that I live in Charles County, Maryland, where
I should be peculiarly happy to see you: but as I can have but little
hopes of being gratified in this, let me have the next pleasure to
it, the favor of a letter now and then; in which, write of matters
personally interesting to yourself, as they will be so to me. Present
me most respectfully to your lady, to General and Mrs. Schuyler. My
best wishes attend you all. Adieu.

                                    Yours in haste, most affectionately,
                                    Robt. H. Harrison.

Colonel Hamilton.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                                           Elk, April 10, 1781.

Where is, for the present, my dear Hamilton? This question is not a
mere affair of curiosity. It is not even wholly owing to the tender
sentiments of my friendship. But motives both of a public and private
nature conspire in making me wish that your woe be not accomplished.
Perhaps you are at head quarters--perhaps at Albany; at all events,
I’ll tell you my history. Had the French fleet come in, Arnold was
ours. The more certain it was, the greater my disappointment has been;
at last it has become necessary for them to return to Rhode Island. I
think they have exerted themselves for the common good, and this has
been a comfort in our misfortune.

Having luckily arrived at Elk by water, which at first I had no right
to expect, I have received the General’s letters. If you are at head
quarters, you will have seen my correspondence with the General; if
not, I tell you that I am ordered to the southern army, and the General
thinks that the army under his immediate command will remain inactive.
After a march of forty days, we will arrive at a time when the heat
of the season will put an end to operations. This detachment is so
circumstanced as to make it very inconvenient for officers and men to
proceed. Before we arrive, we shall perhaps be reduced to five or six
hundred men. There will be no light infantry formed--no attack against
New-York--none of those things which had flattered my mind. If a corps
is sent to the southward by land, it ought to have been the Jersey
line, because if we weaken ourselves, New-York will be out of the
question.

Monsieur Destouches will, I think, propose to the General to send to
Philadelphia l’Eveillé and all the frigates; these, with the frigates
now at Philadelphia, would carry fifteen hundred men to whatever
part of the continent the General would think proper. We could then
go to Morristown, there to form a new corps of light infantry upon
the principles at first intended, and embarking in the first days of
May, we could be at Wilmington, Georgetown, or any where else, sooner
than we can now be by land. I would have the battalions composed of
six companies; Colonels employed--Webb, Sprout, Huntington, Olney,
Hill, Barber, Gimat, _Laurens_; Majors Willet, Fish, Gibbes, Inspector
Smith, and another; Brigadier Generals Huntington and Scamell, and
a good corps of artillerists under * * * * * *. My good friend, you
would be more important at head quarters; but if you don’t stay there,
you know what you have promised to me. Adieu. Write often and long
letters. It is probable I will be in the southern wilderness until the
end of the war, far from head quarters, from the French army, from my
correspondence with France; but the whole good I could have operated,
in this last instance, must have taken place by this time. My best
respects and affectionate compliments wait on Mrs. Hamilton.

                                                    Most friendly yours,
                                                    La Fayette.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                                   April 15, 1781. Susquehanna.

Dear Hamilton:

You are so sensible a fellow, that you certainly can explain to me what
is the matter that New-York is given up; that our letters to France go
for nothing; that while the French are coming, I am going. This last
matter gives great uneasiness to the Minister of France. All this is
not comprehensible to me, who, having been long from head quarters,
have lost the course of intelligence.

Have you left the family, my dear sir? I suppose so; but from love to
the General, for whom you know my affection, I ardently wish it was not
the case; many, many reasons conspire to this desire of mine. But if
you do leave it, and if I go to exile, come and partake it with me.

                                                                  Yours,
                                                                  L. F.




COL. TILGHMAN TO HAMILTON.


                               Head Quarters, 27th April, 1781.

My Dear Hamilton:

Between me and thee there is a gulf, or I should not have been thus
long without seeing you. My faith is strong, but not strong enough to
attempt walking upon the waters. You must not suppose from my dealing
so much in Scripture phrases, that I am either drunk with religion or
with wine, though had I been inclined to the latter, I might have found
a jolly companion in my Lord, who came here yesterday.

We have not a word of news. Whenever any arrives worth communicating,
and good, you shall have it instantly--if bad, I will not promise so
much dispatch.

I must go over and see you soon, for I am not yet weaned from you, nor
do I desire to be. I will not present so cold words as compliments to
Mrs. Hamilton. She has an equal share of the best wishes of

                                                 Your most affectionate,
                                                 Tilghman.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                            De Peyster’s Point, April 27, 1781.

Sir:

I imagine your Excellency has been informed, that in consequence of
the resolution of Congress for granting commissions to Aid-de-Camps
appointed under the former establishment, I have obtained one of
Lieutenant Colonel in the army of the United States, bearing rank since
the 1st of March, 1777.

It is become necessary to me to apply to your Excellency, to know in
what manner you foresee you will be able to employ me in the ensuing
campaign. I am ready to enter into activity whenever you think proper,
though I am not anxious to do it till the army takes the field, as
before that period I perceive no object.

Unconnected as I am with any regiment, I can have no other command than
in a light corps; and I flatter myself my pretensions to this are good.

Your Excellency knows, I have been in actual service since the
beginning of ’76. I began in the line, and had I continued there, I
ought, in justice, to have been more advanced in rank than I now am.
I believe my conduct, in the different capacities in which I have
acted, has appeared to the officers of the army, in general, such as
to merit their confidence and esteem; and I cannot suppose them to
be so ungenerous as not to see me with pleasure put into a situation
still to exercise the disposition I have always had of being useful
to the United States. I mention these things, only to show that I do
not apprehend the same difficulties can exist in my case (which is
peculiar), that have opposed the appointments to commands of some other
officers, not belonging to what is called the line. Though the light
infantry is chiefly formed, yet being detached to the southward, I take
it for granted there will be a vanguard by detachment formed for this
army.

                                     I have the honor to be,
                                     Very respectfully,
                                     Your Excellency’s most ob’t serv’t,
                                     A. Hamilton.

To General Washington.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                   New Windsor, April 27, 1781.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of this date has not a little embarrassed me. You must
remember the ferment in the Pennsylvania line last campaign, occasioned
by the appointment of Major M’Pherson; and you know the uneasiness
which at this moment exists among the eastern officers, on account of
the commands conferred upon Colonel Gimat and Major Galvan, although it
was the result of absolute necessity.

Should circumstances admit of the formation of another advanced corps,
of which I see very little prospect, from present appearances, it can
be but small, and must be composed almost entirely of eastern troops:
and to add to the discontents of the officers of those lines, by the
further appointment of an officer of your rank to the command of
it, or in it, would, I am certain, involve me in a difficulty of a
very disagreeable and delicate nature; and might, perhaps, lead to
consequences more serious than it is easy to imagine. While I adhere
firmly to the right of making such appointments as you request, I am
at the same time obliged to reflect, that it will not do to push that
right too far; more especially in a service like ours, and at a time so
critical as the present.

I am convinced that no officer can, with justice, dispute your merit
and abilities. The opposition heretofore made, has not been for the
want of those qualifications in the gentlemen who are, and have been,
the objects of discontent. The officers of the line contend, without
having reference to particular persons, that it is a hardship and
reflection upon them, to introduce brevet officers into commands
(of some permanency), in which there are more opportunities of
distinguishing themselves than in the line of the army at large, and
with the men they have had the trouble to discipline and to prepare for
the field.

My principal concern arises from an apprehension, that you will
impute my refusal of your request to other motives than those I have
expressed; but I beg you to be assured, I am only influenced by the
reasons which I have mentioned.

                                          I am, dear Sir,
                                          Your obedient, humble servant,
                                          G. Washington.

Lieutenant-Colonel Hamilton.




SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.


                                      Saratoga, April 29, 1781.

My Dear Sir:

       *       *       *       *       *

The troops here are destitute of meat, and I fear will abandon the
post; the inhabitants in consternation, and preparing to fly, since
they have heard of the arrival of some of the enemy’s shipping at
Crown Point. Flour we can procure for the present, I having, on my own
account, purchased one hundred barrels about twelve miles from this. If
beef is sent up so as to enable the troops to remain, an engineer will
be absolutely necessary to construct two or three small fortifications.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                      I am, dear Sir,
                                      Most affectionately and sincerely,
                                      Yours, etc., etc.,
                                      Ph. Schuyler.

Col. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO ROBERT MORRIS.


                                                         April 30, 1781.

Sir:

I was among the first who were convinced that an administration, by
single men, was essential to the proper management of the affairs of
this country. I am persuaded, now, it is the only resource we have, to
extricate ourselves from the distresses which threaten the subversion
of our cause. It is palpable, that the people have lost all confidence
in our public councils; and it is a fact, of which I dare say you are
as well apprised as myself, that our friends in Europe are in the same
disposition. I have been in a situation that has enabled me to obtain a
better idea of this than most others; and I venture to assert, that the
Court of France will never give half the succors to this country, while
Congress hold the reins of administration in their own hands, which
they would grant, if these were intrusted to individuals of established
reputation, and conspicuous for probity, abilities, and fortune.

With respect to ourselves, there is so universal and rooted a
diffidence of the government, that, if we could be assured the future
measures of Congress would be dictated by the most perfect wisdom and
public spirit, there would be still a necessity for a change in the
forms of our administration, to give a new spring and current to the
passions and hopes of the people. To me it appears evident, that an
executive ministry, composed of men with the qualifications I have
described, would speedily restore the credit of government abroad
and at home--would induce our allies to greater exertions in our
behalf--would inspire confidence in moneyed men in Europe, as well as
in America, to lend us those sums of which it may be demonstrated we
stand in need, from the disproportion of our national wealth to the
expenses of the war.

I hope, sir, you will not consider it as a compliment, when I assure
you that I heard, with the greatest satisfaction, of your nomination
to the department of finance. In a letter of mine, last summer, to Mr.
Duane, urging, among other things, the plan of an executive ministry, I
mentioned you as the person who ought to fill that department. I know
of no other in America, who unites so many advantages; and of course
every impediment to your acceptance, is to me a subject of chagrin. I
flatter myself Congress will not preclude the public from your services
by an obstinate refusal of reasonable conditions; and, as one deeply
interested in the event, I am happy in believing you will not easily
be discouraged from undertaking an office, by which you may render
America, and the world, no less a service than the establishment of
American independence! ’Tis by introducing order into our finances--by
restoring public credit--not by gaining battles, that we are finally to
gain our object. ’Tis by putting ourselves in a condition to continue
the war--not by temporary, violent, and unnatural efforts to bring it
to a decisive issue, that we shall, in reality, bring it to a speedy
and successful one. In the frankness of truth I believe, sir, you are
the man best capable of performing this great work.

In expectation that all difficulties will be removed, and that you
will ultimately act on terms you approve, I take the liberty to submit
to you some ideas, relative to the objects of your department. I
pretend not to be an able financier: it is a part of administration
which has been least in my way, and, of course, has least occupied my
inquiries and reflections. Neither have I had leisure or materials to
make accurate calculations. I have been obliged to depend on memory
for important facts, for want of the authorities from which they are
drawn. With all these disadvantages, my plan must necessarily be crude
and defective; but if it may be a basis for something more perfect, or
if it contains any hints that may be of use to you, the trouble I have
taken myself, or may give you, will not be misapplied. At any rate, the
confidence I have in your judgment, assures me that you will receive,
with pleasure, communications of this sort: if they contain any thing
useful, they will promote your views and the public benefit; if not,
the only evil is the trouble of reading them; and the best informed
will frequently derive lights, even from reveries of projectors and
quacks. There is scarcely any plan so bad as not to have something good
in it. I trust mine to your candor without further apology; you will at
least do justice to my intention.

The first step towards determining what ought to be done in the
finances of this country, is to estimate, in the best manner we can,
its capacity for revenue; and the proportion between what it is able to
afford, and what it stands in need of, for the expenses of its civil
and military establishments. There occur to me two ways of doing this:
1st. By examining what proportion the revenues of other countries have
borne to their stock of wealth, and applying the rule to ourselves,
with proper allowance for the difference of circumstances. 2d. By
comparing the result of this rule with the product of taxes in those
States which have been the most in earnest in taxation. The reason for
having recourse to the first method is, that our own experience of our
faculties in this respect, has not been sufficiently clear, or uniform,
to admit of a certain conclusion: so that it will be more satisfactory
to judge of them by a general principle, drawn by the example of other
nations, compared with what we have effected ourselves, than to rely
entirely upon the latter.

The nations with whose wealth and revenues we are best acquainted, are
France, Great Britain, and the United Provinces. The real wealth of a
nation, consisting in its labor and commodities, is to be estimated
by the sign of that wealth--its circulating cash. There may be times
when, from particular accidents, the quantity of this may exceed or
fall short of a just representative; but it will turn again to a proper
level, and, in the general course of things, maintain itself in that
state.

The circulation of France is almost wholly carried on in the precious
metals; and its current cash is estimated at from fifteen to sixteen
hundred millions of livres. The net revenue of the kingdom, the sum
which actually passes into the public coffers, is somewhere between
three hundred and sixty and four hundred millions, about one fourth of
the whole of its currency. An estimate of the wealth of this nation
is liable to less fallacy than of that of the other two, as it makes
little use of paper credit, which may be artificially increased, and
even supported, a long time beyond its natural bounds.

It is supposed that the gross sum extracted from the people by the
collectors of the revenue, may be one-third more than that which goes
into the treasury: but as their exactions are excessive, and fall too
heavy on particular orders, who are by that means reduced to indigence
and misery, it is to be inferred, that, with moderate and reasonable
expenses of collection, the present revenue is as great as the kingdom
can well afford, from its present quantity of wealth.

The circulating cash of Great Britain, in paper and specie, may be
stated at about forty millions of pounds sterling. Mr. Hume supposes
it to have been, at the time he wrote his Essay on the Balance of
Trade, about thirty millions. Other writers have carried it to fifty,
and it is probably in a medium that we shall find the truth. I do not
include in this, the whole amount of Bank notes, Exchequer bills,
India bonds, etc. etc.; but only such part as is really employed in
common circulation, and performs the offices of current cash. In ’75,
by Dr. Price’s statement, the net revenue of Great Britain was ten
millions--that is, about one-fourth of its current cash, as in France.

I have never met with any calculation that might be depended upon, of
the current cash of the Seven Provinces. Almost the whole of their
coin, as well as large quantities of plate and bullion, are shut up
in the Bank of Amsterdam. The real wealth of the Bank is believed to
be about fifteen millions sterling; though, upon the strength of
this fund, it has a credit almost unlimited, that answers all the
purposes of cash in trade. As the Dutch, by their prudent maxims, have
commonly the rate of exchange throughout Europe in their favor, and
a considerable balance of trade, the use of paper credit (which, in
part, also depends upon the particular nature of their Banks) has not
the same tendency with them, as in England, to banish the precious
metals. We may therefore suppose these to be here, as in France, the
true sign of the wealth of the nation. If to the fifteen millions in
Bank, we add two millions of specie for the retail circulation and
various transactions of business, we shall, I imagine, have nearly the
true stock of wealth of the United Provinces. Their revenues amount
to something more than four millions, and bear the same proportion to
the stock from which they are drawn, as those of France and England.
I confess, however, the data, in their case, are not sufficiently
ascertained to permit us to rely equally on the result. From these
three examples we may venture to deduce this general rule,--that the
proportion of revenue which a nation is capable of affording, is
about one-fourth of its circulating cash, so far as this is a just
representative of its labor and commodities.

This is only applicable to commercial countries, because, in those
which are not so, the circulating cash is not an adequate sign. A great
part of domestic commerce is carried on by barter; and the State must
receive a part of its dues in the labor and commodities themselves. The
proportion, however, of the revenues of such a State to the aggregate
of its labor and commodities, ought to be the same as in the case
of trading nations to their circulating cash; with this difference,
that the difficulty of collection and transportation, the waste and
embezzlement inseparable from this mode of revenue, would make the real
advantage and ultimate gain to the State, infinitely less than when the
public dues are paid in cash.

When I say that one-fourth part of its stock of wealth is the revenue
which a nation is capable of affording to the government, I must be
understood in a qualified, not in an absolute sense. It would be
presumptuous to fix a precise boundary to the ingenuity of financiers,
or to the patience of the people: but this we may safely say, that
taxation is already carried, in the nations we have been speaking of;
to an extent which does not admit of a very considerable increase
without a proportionable increase of industry. This suffices for a
standard to us; and we may proceed to the application.

From a comparison of the several estimates I have seen, of the quantity
of current cash in this country previous to the war (specie and paper),
I have settled my opinion of the amount at thirty millions of dollars,
of which about eight might have been in specie: one-fourth of this, by
analogy, was at that time the proper revenue of these States; that is,
seven and a half millions of dollars.

As taxation, however, has, by slow gradations, been carried to an
extreme in those countries which I have chosen as examples, that would
not be, but in a course of time, practicable in this, where the people
have been so little accustomed to taxes, it may be doubted whether
it would be possible to raise the same proportion of revenue here.
The object of the war, I imagine, would supply the want of habit,
and reconcile the minds of the people to paying to the utmost of
their abilities, provided the taxes were judiciously imposed, and the
revenues wisely administered. Besides this, there is a circumstance
in our favor, which puts it in the power of government to raise an
equal proportion of revenue without burthening the lower classes of
the people in the same degree as in Europe. This circumstance is the
much greater equality of fortunes, by which means men, in this country,
may be made to contribute to the public exigencies in a much juster
proportion to their property; and this is in fact the case. In France
the rich have gained so entire an ascendant, that there is a constant
sacrifice of the ease and happiness of the people to their avarice and
luxury: their burthens are in no proportion to those of the middle
order, and still less to those of the poor. In England and Holland the
case, though not altogether, is in a great measure the same. There are
also men of very large moneyed capitals, which were either formerly
exempt from taxes by being in the public funds, or, having no visible
representative for taxation to operate upon, enjoy virtually the same
advantages. But if, at the commencement of the war, the ability of
these States for revenue may be rated at seven and a half millions of
dollars, when the amount of its circulating cash was thirty millions,
now that it is reduced more than one-half in real value, to what
revenue are they to be supposed equal at this time? I should judge
about one-fifth less, and not more.

The diminution of our circulating cash is principally artificial. It is
true, our foreign commerce has declined by the war, but our domestic
commerce has increased. I know of no good reason to believe, that the
quantity of labor and commodities have been materially diminished. Our
exports have lessened, but our internal consumption has augmented. The
men employed in the army, and in the departments connected with it,
consume and waste three times as much as the same number of men in
civil life. A number of husbandmen have been taken from their ploughs
into military service; but the progress of our natural population
has, in part, supplied their place; and the demands of the war have
increased individual industry. The great influx of money, at first
operated upon the avarice of the people, and, for a long time, served
also as a stimulus to industry, which taxation has since kept up on the
principle of necessity. Notwithstanding the demands and competitions of
two armies for supplies, we see that corn, which is the staple of these
middle States, is cheaper than for some years before the war; a strong
argument of plenty.

We may infer from all this, that we stand in need now of nearly the
same quantity of medium for our circulation as before the war. The
depreciation of the money below the standard, is to be attributed to
a want of confidence rather than to a decay of resources. We find the
people, in some of the States, distressed to pay their taxes, for
want of money, with ample means otherwise; which is a proof, that
our current cash is not a competent representative of the labor and
commodities of the country. Another proof of the same nature is, that
particular States who have found no small difficulty in collecting
their pecuniary taxes, have been successful in raising contributions
to a large amount in kind. This country never having been a country of
manufactures, the productions of the soil ever were, as they still are,
the principal source of revenue. The inhabitants have abridged their
wants of foreign articles, from the scarcity of them, and have, in
part, supplied their place by home manufactures; which, being chiefly
conducted by the women, take nothing from the labor appropriated to
agriculture, while it enables the farmer to spare a larger portion of
his income to the public.

Whatever diminution our means of revenue may have suffered, must
be accounted for on the decay of foreign trade, and on the loss of
territory. The imposts on trade in Great Britain amounted to about a
fourth of its total revenue. The proportion must be less in America.
But suppose it to be the same; suppose our external commerce to
be reduced one-half, which I believe is an ample allowance, then,
one-eighth should be deducted from our revenue on this account; which
would bring it down to six millions, five hundred and sixty-two
thousand, five hundred dollars. Allow for the loss of Georgia and
South Carolina one-eighth of this sum: this would reduce the income
of the remaining States to five millions, seven hundred and forty-two
thousand, one hundred and eighty-eight, and four-eighths, dollars.
But as the allowance, in both cases, is large, the diminution I have
already supposed, of one-fifth of the whole, appears to be nearest the
truth; which leaves these States with a net revenue of six millions of
dollars.

We will now examine how far this rule agrees with experience, and with
what has already been effected in these States. Massachusetts may serve
as a criterion. This is one of the States where taxation has been
carried furthest. Taxes were so heavy last year, that I am informed
there were real marks of distress among some classes of the people. The
Legislature, in their late Address, tell us that they amounted to six
hundred thousand pounds lawful: and they appear to have thought the
pressure of them too great, by reducing them at a time when they are
obliged to have recourse to a large loan, to answer the exigencies of
the current year.

The taxes they specify which seem to belong to those of the present
year, with the addition of the bounties for raising men, and the beef
supply, may be estimated at near five hundred thousand pounds.

This State is in a different situation from any other. Its position
has made it impossible for the enemy to intercept its trade; while
that of all the others has been greatly injured or totally obstructed.
It has become, in consequence, the mart of the States northward of
Pennsylvania; and its commerce has enlarged itself much beyond its
former limits. A great part of the money expended for the support of
the war, has been disbursed there. Congress, in their requisitions for
money, have rated the quota of Massachusetts at     of the whole;
but I believe its ability, at this time, is in the proportion of
one-fifth. I found this estimation on an impartial comparison of the
circumstances of the several States.

Admitting the proportion to be just, and taking the taxes of the
present year as a standard, the gross amount of our collective revenues
would be two millions, five hundred thousand pounds lawful; or eight
millions, three hundred and thirty-three thousand, three hundred and
thirty-three, and one-third, dollars. The expense of collection, in
England, is about the ninth of the gross amount; and considering
that our revenue is to be raised in eleven different governments,
each having a complete set of collectors of its own, the expense of
collection, with us, will in all probability be not much less than it
is in England. Supposing it to be the same, and that the taxes were to
prove as productive as their nominal amount, our net revenue would then
be seven millions, four hundred and seven thousand, four hundred and
eight, and one-half, dollars; which considerably exceeds what it ought
to be by my first calculation.

But there are considerations which may induce us to make large
deductions from this sum. When the Legislature tells us, that the
taxes of last year amounted to six hundred thousand pounds, it also
tells us that there was _a part_ of them still to be levied; which,
among other things, had occasioned them to postpone the next tax to a
future session. Whatever is due on the last year, may be considered,
in effect, as an anticipation on the taxes of the present; for it takes
off so much from the ability of the people to pay them. The chances
are, that the additional impositions projected for the current year
will not be raised in their full extent. Taxes are seldom or never so
productive as their estimated value; and in a case like this, must be
expected to be more than commonly deficient.

It is to be observed, also, that the last year was a year of peculiar
exertion. There was a general expectation of some attempt, in
conjunction with our allies, decisive of the war. This made the people
strain their efforts beyond their natural abilities: and yet they did
not comply with the demands of the Legislature.

The money for the bounties this year, which I have calculated at
sixty thousand pounds,[12] may, in like manner, be regarded as an
extraordinary and special contribution, which the people may be willing
to submit to, over and above what they could probably afford to pay, to
get rid of the insupportable inconvenience of temporary enlistments.

Reasonable deductions on these accounts being made, will bring the two
calculations to a pretty exact agreement, and make them confirm each
other. But were not this the case, I should be inclined, in preference,
to trust the first, as being founded on a basis better known and better
ascertained by experience. I believe, however, we may safely conclude,
from both, that between six and seven millions of dollars is the proper
revenue of these States, after the dismemberment of South Carolina and
Georgia.

Having formed an estimate of our ability for revenue, the next thing
to be ascertained is, the annual expense of our civil and military
establishments. With tolerable economy, I should suppose two millions
and a half of dollars would amply suffice for the first, including the
particular administration of each State. For the second, judiciously
managed, eight millions of dollars would be adequate, calculating for
an army of twenty thousand men, which are as many as we shall stand in
need of, or be able[13] to raise. Eleven millions of dollars will be
then the amount of the annual expenses of these States. I speak on a
supposition that a system were embraced, well adapted to rescuing our
affairs from the chaos in which they are now involved; and which, while
it continues, must baffle all calculation.

The difference between our revenues and expenses, on the preceding
scale, will be from four to four and a half millions of dollars; which
deficiency must of course be supplied by credit, foreign or domestic,
or both.

With regard to credit abroad, I think we have little chance of
obtaining a sufficiency, nearly to answer our purpose. France, by all
the reforms she can make in her interior economy, by all the means
she can procure in loans and lotteries, in addition to her revenue,
can do little more than satisfy her own wants. The death of the
Empress Queen, and the notorious hostility of the Emperor, will add
to the number of these. She will, in all probability, be obliged to
pay greater attention to her army, which has been neglected, for
several years past, to apply all the resources of the kingdom to
the improvement of the navy. Though Russia and Prussia, by the last
advices, seemed disposed to control the ill-humor of the Emperor,
France will hardly think it prudent to leave herself in a defenceless
condition, relying on the precarious friendship and momentary interests
of other powers. The increase of her army will necessarily increase her
expenses, as she cannot, in the present state of things, retrench any
thing from the navy; and of course she will have less money to spare
to allies. It has been observed, that France has hitherto imposed none
of the additional taxes usual in time of war; by doing which, it is
imagined she would have it in her power, not only to supply her own
wants better, but to contribute largely to ours. To this it has been
answered, with great appearance of reason, that the credit of the
financier very much depends on his having such a resource in reserve,
which, being considered as a mean he may command, when necessary, to
fulfil his engagements, disposes moneyed men to lend to him with the
greater freedom and confidence. The breaking in upon that resource,
therefore (it is said), would injure credit, and obstruct loans in a
degree that could not be compensated by the direct value of the revenue
it would furnish.

Upon the whole, however, from a variety of siftings and inquiries, I
should be mistaken if France did not lend this country eight or ten
millions of livres annually, during the war; provided its finances were
once put upon a reasonable footing: but this is not above a third of
our wants.

I find no reason to flatter ourselves that we have much to expect
either from the ability or inclination of Spain. Her government is far
from being so rich as is vulgarly imagined. The mines of South America,
of late years, have been less liberal of their profits; and, for fear
of accidents, but a small part of their product, since the war, has
been imported into Europe. The extreme indolence of the Spaniards,
and their neglect of agriculture, manufactures, and trade, make them
tributary to their more industrious neighbors, who drain them of their
precious metals as fast as they arrive.

But if they were heartily disposed to do it, they might still afford
us some assistance. Their conduct, hitherto, has manifested no such
disposition: it has been as cold and reserved as it could well be.
The bills drawn upon them have not been rejected, but they have not
been paid. Their permitting the residence of a British emissary among
them, and the countenance they give him, unprecedented in a state of
war, afford just room for a distrust of their intentions, though it
may be nothing more than a stroke of policy, to play him off against
our negotiations, and make us bid higher for their friendship. Their
method of prosecuting the war is passive, to a degree that can scarcely
be resolved even into Spanish supineness; but seems to have a more
corrupt original. A bigoted prince, governed by a greedy confessor, is
a character on which little dependence can be placed.

’Tis not on Spain, then, that we are to build our hopes of any
considerable succors in money.

The Dutch government has of long standing mortgaged all its revenues.
Taxation has been carried to a length that admits of little extension.
’Tis from its credit with its own citizens, that it must derive the
means of making war. It has every thing to do. Its fleet is to be in a
manner created anew; and its land forces to be recruited, having been,
for some time past, suffered to decline very much. It will, therefore,
stand in need of all its credit for its own uses. Of course we have
nothing to expect from the government of that country.

The individuals will not have confidence enough in our public councils,
to embark any considerable part of their fortunes with us, on the
ordinary principles of a loan. Stronger inducements, the prospect of
commercial advantages, securities different from the mere faith of the
United States, must be held out, to tempt them to engage far with us.
The plan I am going to propose, endeavors to conciliate these objects.

As to internal loans, on which, after all, we must chiefly depend,
there are two things that operate against them, to any large amount;
the want of a sufficient number of men, with sufficient moneyed
capitals to lend the sums required, and the want of confidence in those
who are able to lend, to make them willing to part with their money. It
may be added, that they can employ it to greater advantage in traffic,
than by merely lending it on interest.

To surmount these obstacles, and give individuals ability and
inclination to lend, in any proportion to the wants of government, a
plan must be devised, which, by incorporating their means together,
and uniting them with those of the public, will, on the foundation of
that incorporation and union, erect a mass of credit that will supply
the defect of moneyed capital, and answer all the purposes of cash; a
plan which will offer adventurers immediate advantages, analogous to
those they receive by employing their money in trade, and, eventually,
greater advantages; a plan which will give them the greatest security
the nature of the case will admit for what they lend; and which will
not only advance their own interest, and secure the independence of
their country, but, in its progress, have the most beneficial influence
upon its future commerce, and be a source of national strength and
wealth.

I mean the institution of a NATIONAL BANK. This I regard, in some shape
or other, as an expedient essential to our safety and success; unless,
by a happy turn of European affairs, the war should speedily terminate
in a manner upon which it would be unwise to reckon. There is no other
that can give to government that extensive and systematic credit,
which the defect of our revenues makes indispensably necessary to its
operations.

The longer it is delayed, the more difficult it becomes. Our affairs
grow every day more relaxed and more involved; public credit hastens
to a more irretrievable catastrophe; the means for executing the plan
are exhausted in partial and temporary efforts. The loan now making in
Massachusetts would have gone a great way in establishing the funds on
which the Bank must stand.

I am aware of all the objections that have been made to public Banks;
and that they are not without enlightened and respectable opponents.
But all that has been said against them, only tends to prove that,
like all other good things, they are subject to abuse, and, when
abused, become pernicious. The precious metals, by similar arguments,
may be proven to be injurious. It is certain that the mines of South
America have had great influence in banishing industry from Spain, and
sinking it in real wealth and importance. Great power, commerce, and
riches, or, in other words, great national prosperity, may, in like
manner, be denominated evils; for they lead to insolence, an inordinate
ambition, a vicious luxury, licentiousness of morals, and all those
vices which corrupt government, enslave the people, and precipitate
the ruin of a nation. But no wise statesman will reject the good, from
an apprehension of the ill. The truth is, in human affairs there is
no good, pure and unmixed: every advantage has two sides: and wisdom
consists in availing ourselves of the good, and guarding as much as
possible against the bad.

The tendency of a National Bank is to increase public and private
credit. The former gives power to the State, for the protection of
its rights and interests: and the latter facilitates and extends the
operations of commerce among individuals. Industry is increased,
commodities are multiplied, agriculture and manufactures flourish: and
herein consists the true wealth and prosperity of a State.

Most commercial nations have found it necessary to institute Banks: and
they have proved to be the happiest engines that ever were invented for
advancing trade. Venice, Genoa, Hamburgh, Holland, and England, are
examples of their utility. They owe their riches, commerce, and the
figure they have made at different periods, in a great degree to this
source. Great Britain is indebted for the immense efforts she has been
able to make, in so many illustrious and successful wars, essentially
to that vast fabric of credit raised on this foundation. ’Tis by this
alone she now menaces our independence.

She has, indeed, abused the advantage, and now stands on a precipice.
Her example should both persuade and warn us. ’Tis in republics where
Banks are most easily established and supported, and where they are
least liable to abuse. Our situation will not expose us to frequent
wars; and the public will have no temptation to overstrain its credit.
In my opinion, we ought not to hesitate, because we have no other
resource. The long and expensive wars of King William, had drained
England of its specie: its commerce began to droop for want of a proper
medium: its taxes were unproductive, and its revenues declined. The
administration wisely had recourse to the institution of a Bank; and
it relieved the national difficulties. We are in the same, and still
greater, want of a sufficient medium. We have little specie: the paper
we have is of small value, and rapidly descending to less: we are
immersed in a war for our existence as a nation, for our liberty and
happiness as a people: we have no revenues nor no credit. A Bank, if
practicable, is the only thing that can give us either the one or the
other.

Besides these great and cardinal motives to such an institution, and
the advantages we should enjoy from it, in common with other nations,
our situation, relatively to Europe and to the West Indies, would give
us some peculiar advantages.

Nothing is more common than for men to pass from the abuse of a good
thing, to the disuse of it. Some persons, disgusted by the depreciation
of the money, are chimerical enough to imagine it would be beneficial
to abolish all paper credit, annihilate the whole of what is now in
circulation, and depend altogether upon our specie, both for commerce
and finance. The scheme is altogether visionary, and in the attempt
would be fatal. We have not a competent stock of specie in this
country, either to answer the purposes of circulation in trade, or to
serve as a basis for revenue. The whole amount of what we have, I am
persuaded, does not exceed six millions of dollars, one-fifth of the
circulating medium before the war. To suppose this would be sufficient
for the operations of commerce, would be to suppose that our domestic
and foreign commerce were both reduced four-fifths: a supposition that
carries absurdity in the face of it. It follows that if our paper
money were destroyed, a great part of the transactions of traffic
must be carried on by barter; a mode inconvenient, partial, confined,
destructive both of commerce and industry. With the addition of the
paper we now have, this evil exists in too great a degree. With respect
to revenue, could the whole of our specie be drawn into the public
treasury annually, we have seen that it would be little more than one
half of our annual expense. But this would be impracticable; it has
never been effected in any country. Where the numerary of a country
is a sufficient representative, there is only a certain proportion of
it that can be drawn out of daily circulation; because, without the
necessary quantity of cash, a stagnation of business would ensue. How
small, then, would be the proportion of the six millions (in itself so
unequal a representative) which the public would be able to extract in
revenue. It must either have little or no revenue, or it must receive
its dues in kind; on the inefficacy and inconveniences of which mode, I
have already remarked. The necessity for it, in part, unhappily now has
place, for the cause assigned, a deficiency of current cash: but were
we to establish it as our principal dependence, it would be impossible
to contrive a mode less productive to the public, more contrary to the
habits and inclinations of the people, or more baneful to industry.

But waiving the objections on this head, there would still remain
a balance of four millions of dollars more than these States can
furnish in revenue, which must be provided for the yearly expense of
the war. How is this to be procured without a paper credit, to supply
the deficiency of specie, and enable the moneyed men to lend? This
question, I apprehend, will be of no easy solution.

In the present system of things, the health of a State, particularly
a commercial one, depends on a due quantity and regular circulation
of cash, as much as the health of an animal body depends upon the due
quantity and regular circulation of the blood. There are indisputable
indications that we have not a sufficient medium; and what we have is
in continual fluctuation. The only cure to our public disorders, is to
fix the value of the currency we now have, and increase it to a proper
standard, in a species that will have the requisite stability.

The error of those who would explode paper money altogether, originates
in not making proper distinctions. Our paper was, in its nature, liable
to depreciation, because it had no funds for its support, and was not
upheld by private credit. The emissions under the resolution of March,
’80, have partly the former advantage, but are destitute of the latter,
which is equally essential. No paper credit can be substantial, or
durable, which has not funds, and which does not unite, immediately,
the interest and influence of the moneyed men, in its establishment and
preservation. A credit begun on this basis, will, in process of time,
greatly exceed its funds: but this requires time, and a well settled
opinion in its favor. ’Tis in a National Bank, alone, that we can find
the ingredients to constitute a wholesome, solid, and beneficial paper
credit.

I am aware that, in the present temper of men’s minds, it will be no
easy task to inspire a relish for a project of this kind: but much will
depend on the address and personal credit of the proposer. In your
hands I should not despair: and I should have the greater hopes for
what I am informed appeared to be the disposition, at the promulgation
of the plan for a loan in Massachusetts. The men of property in
America, are enlightened about their own interest, and would easily
be brought to see the advantages of a good plan. They ought not to
be discouraged at what has happened heretofore, when they behold
the administration of our finances put into a better channel. The
violations of public engagements, hitherto, have proceeded more from a
necessity produced by ignorance and mismanagement, than from levity or
a disregard to the obligations of good faith.

Should the success, in the first instance, not be as complete as
the extent of the plan requires, this should not hinder its being
undertaken. It is of the nature of a Bank, wisely instituted, and
wisely administered, to extend itself, and, from small beginnings, grow
to a magnitude that could not have been foreseen.

The plan I propose, requires a stock of three millions of pounds,
lawful money; but if one-half the sum could be obtained, I should
entertain no doubt of its full success. It now remains to submit my
plan, which I rather offer as an outline, than as a finished plan.
It contains, however, the general principles. To each article, in an
opposite column, I shall affix an explanatory remark.

 Art I. A Bank to be              Remark 1. By the second Article,
 erected with a stock of three    a part of the stock is to be in landed
 millions of pounds, lawful       security: by this, the whole is to be
 money, at the rate of six        exempted from taxes. Here will be a
 shillings to a dollar, divided   considerable saving to the proprietor,
 into thirty thousand shares.     which is to be estimated among the clear
 This stock to be exempted        profits of the Bank. This will indeed
 from all public taxes and        be a small reduction of the public
 impositions whatsoever.          revenue; but the loss will be of little
                                  consequence, compared with the advantages
                                  to be derived from the Bank.

 Art II. A subscription           Remark 2. By admitting landed
 to be opened for the amount      security as a part of the Bank stock,
 of the stock. A subscriber of    while we establish solid funds for the
 from one share to five, to       money emitted, we at the same time
 advance the whole in specie.     supply the defect of specie, and we give
 A subscriber of six shares to    a strong inducement to moneyed men to
 fifteen to advance one-half in   advance their money; because, not only
 specie, the other half in good   the money actually deposited is to be
 landed security. A subscriber    employed for their benefit, but, on the
 of sixteen shares, and upwards,  credit of their landed security, by the
 to advance two-sixths in         seventh Article, may be raised an equal
 specie, one-sixth in bills or    amount in cash, to be also employed for
 securities on good European      their benefit: by which artifice they
 funds, and three-sixths in good  have the use of their land (exempted,
 landed security. In either case  too, from taxes), and the use of the
 of specie, plate or bullion,     value of it in a representative cash. In
 at a given value, proportioned   this consists a capital advantage of the
 to its quality, may be           Bank to the proprietors. A, for instance,
 substituted; and in either case  advances six hundred pounds in specie,
 of landed security, specie,      and as much more in landed security. By
 good bills, or securities        the establishment he may draw bank notes
 on European funds, to be         for the whole of his stock, that is,
 admissible in their stead.[14]   for twelve hundred pounds, when he only
                                  advances half the sum in money. These
                                  bank notes operating as cash, his land
                                  (continuing, as we observed above, in
                                  his own use, with the privilege besides
                                  of an exemption from taxes) is converted
                                  into cash; which he may employ in loans,
                                  in profitable contracts, in beneficial
                                  purchases, in discounting bills of
                                  exchange, and in the other methods
                                  permitted in the subsequent Articles.
                                  Besides all this, when the bank notes
                                  have once acquired a fixed credit, he
                                  is not obliged to keep his six hundred
                                  pounds, deposited in specie, idle: he
                                  may lend, or otherwise improve, a part
                                  of that also. These advantages will not
                                  exist in their full extent at first, but
                                  they will soon succeed each other.

 Art. III. The Bank               Remark 3. This Article needs no
 to be erected into a legal       illustration.
 corporation; to have all the
 powers and immunities requisite
 to its security, to the
 recovery of its debts, and to
 the disposal of its property.

 Art. IV. The stock               Remark 4. The first part of
 of the Bank not to be liable     this regulation is necessary to engage
 to any attachment or seizure     foreigners to trust their property in the
 whatsoever; but, on refusal of   Bank; the latter part to give an idea of
 payment, the holders of bank     security to the holders of bank notes.
 notes, or bonds, may enter suit
 against any member, or members,
 of the corporation; and, as far
 as their respective shares in
 the Bank extend, recover the
 debt, with cost and damages,
 out of their private property.

 Art. V. The United               Remark 5. This will link the
 States, or any particular        interests of the public more intimately
 States, or foreigners, may       with the Bank, and be an easy method
 become subscribers to the Bank,  of acquiring revenue. It will also
 and participate its profits,     facilitate the making up its stock by the
 for any sums not exceeding the   loans which Congress may obtain abroad;
 whole half the stock.            without which it would be more difficult
                                  to raise so large a sum. It is essential
                                  the stock should be large, because, in
                                  proportion to it, will be the credit of
                                  the Bank, and of course its ability to
                                  lend and enlarge its paper emissions.
                                  The admission of foreigners will also
                                  assist the completing the stock; and it
                                  is probable many may be induced to enter
                                  into the plan, especially after it has
                                  made some progress among ourselves, and
                                  obtained a degree of consistency.

                                  The sum is limited to one half the stock,
                                  because it is of primary importance the
                                  moneyed men among ourselves should be
                                  deeply interested in the plan.

 Art. VI. The United              Remark 6. This mode of pledging
 States, collectively and         the public faith, makes it as difficult
 particularly, to become          to be infringed as could possibly
 responsible for all the          be devised. In our situation it is
 transactions of the Bank,        expedient to offer every appearance of
 conjointly with the private      security. Foreigners are more firmly
 proprietors.                     persuaded of the establishment of our
                                  independence than of the continuance of
                                  our union; and will therefore have more
                                  confidence in the States bound separately
                                  than collectively. Individuals among
                                  ourselves will be influenced by similar
                                  considerations.

 Art VII. The Bank to             Remark 7. The reason of having
 issue notes payable at sight,    them payable at sight, is to inspire
 in pounds, shillings, and        the greater confidence and give them a
 pence, lawful: all of twenty     readier currency: nor do I apprehend
 shillings, and under, to bear    there would be any danger from it. In
 no interest: all above, to       the beginning some may be carried to the
 bear an interest not exceeding   Bank for payment, but finding they are
 four per cent. The notes to be   punctually discharged, the applications
 of so many denominations as      will cease. The notes are payable in
 may be judged convenient for     pounds, shillings, and pence, rather
 circulation, and of two kinds;   than in dollars, to produce an illusion
 one payable only in America,     in the minds of the people favorable
 the other payable either in      to the new paper; or rather to prevent
 American or in an part of        their transferring to that their
 Europe where the Bank may have   prejudices against the old. Paper credit
 funds. The aggregate of these    depends much on opinion, and opinion is
 notes never to exceed the Bank   often guided by outside appearances. A
 stock.                           circumstance trivial as this may seem,
                                  might have no small influence on the
                                  popular imagination. And if 20s., and
                                  under, are without interest, because such
                                  small sums will be diffused in the lesser
                                  transactions of daily circulation, there
                                  will be less probability of their being
                                  carried to the Bank for payment.

                                  The interest on the larger notes is
                                  calculated to give them a preference to
                                  specie, and prevent a run upon the Bank.
                                  The notes, however, must be introduced by
                                  degrees, so as not to inundate the public
                                  at once. Those bearing no interest ought
                                  not to be multiplied too much at first;
                                  but as the interest is an abridgment of
                                  the profits of the Bank, after the notes
                                  have gained an unequivocal credit, it
                                  will be advantageous to issue a large
                                  proportion of the smaller ones. At first,
                                  the interest had best be at four per
                                  cent., to operate the more effectually as
                                  a motive: afterwards, on the new notes,
                                  it may be gradually diminished: but it
                                  will always be expedient to let them bear
                                  an interest not less than two per cent.

                                  The making some of the notes payable
                                  in Europe as well as in America, is
                                  necessary to enable the Bank to avail
                                  itself of its funds there: it will also
                                  serve to raise the demand for Bank notes,
                                  by rendering them useful in foreign
                                  commerce, the promoting which is a
                                  further inducement.

                                  The limiting the aggregate of the notes
                                  to the amount of the stock, is necessary
                                  to obviate a suspicion of their being
                                  multiplied beyond the means of redemption.

 Art. VIII. The Bank to           Remark 8. In the beginning it
 lend money to the public, or to  will be for the advantage of the Bank to
 individuals, at an interest not  require high interest, because money is
 exceeding eight per cent.        in great demand, and the Bank itself will
                                  want the principal part of its cash for
                                  the loans stipulated in Article XIII, and
                                  for performing the contracts authorized
                                  by Article XII: so that the profits will
                                  not, for some time, turn materially on
                                  the principle of loans, except that
                                  to the public. But when the contracts
                                  cease, the Bank will find its advantage
                                  in lending, at a moderate interest, to
                                  secure a preference from borrowers, which
                                  will, at the same time, promote commerce;
                                  and by a kind of mutual reaction, the
                                  Bank will assist commerce, and commerce
                                  will assist the Bank.

 Art. IX. The Bank to             Remark 9. This is a precaution
 have liberty of borrowing, on    against a sudden run. It may borrow
 the best terms it can, to the    in proportion to what it pays. It
 amount of one half of its stock. has another advantage: at particular
                                  conjunctures the Bank may borrow at a
                                  low interest, and lend, at others, at a
                                  higher.

 Art. X. The Bank to              Remark 10. This privilege
 have liberty of purchasing       of purchasing estates will be a very
 estates by principal, or by      valuable one. By watching favorable
 annuities; the power of coining  opportunities, with so large a capital,
 to the amount of half its        vast property may be acquired in this
 stock, the quantity of alloy,    way. There will be a fine opening at
 etc., being determined by        the conclusion of the war. Many persons
 Congress; also the power of      disaffected to our independence, who
 discounting bills of exchange.   have rendered themselves odious without
                                  becoming obnoxious to the laws, will
                                  be disposed to sell their estates
                                  here, either for their whole value, or
                                  for annuities in Europe. The power of
                                  coining[15] is necessary, as plate, or
                                  bullion, is admitted instead of specie;
                                  and it may be, on particular occasions,
                                  expedient to coin them; this will be a
                                  small resource to the Bank. The power
                                  of discounting bills of exchange will
                                  be a considerable one. Its advantages
                                  will consist in purchasing, or taking up
                                  for the honor of the drawer, when the
                                  security is good, bills of exchange at so
                                  much per cent. discount. A large profit
                                  might be now made in this way on the
                                  bills drawn on France; and hereafter, in
                                  times of peace, when commerce comes to
                                  flourish, this practice will promote the
                                  transactions of the several States with
                                  each other, and with Europe, and will be
                                  very profitable to the Bank.

 Art. XI. The Bank                Remark 11. This is in imitation
 to receive from individuals,     of the Bank of Amsterdam. If individuals
 deposits of any sums of money,   once get into the practice of depositing
 to be repaid when called for,    their money in Bank, it will give credit
 or passed, by order, to the      to the Bank, and assist trade. In time,
 credit of others; or deposits    a premium may be required at repayment
 of plate, paying a certain       as in Holland. A small profit may be
 annual rate for safe keeping.    immediately gained on plate, as the
 Whatever is deposited in the     States begin to tax this article; and
 Bank, to be exempt from taxes.   many persons will dispense at this time
                                  with the use of their plate, if they can
                                  deposit it in a place of safety, and
                                  pay less for keeping it than the tax.
                                  Whatever serves to increase the apparent
                                  wealth of the Bank, will enhance its
                                  credit! It may even be useful to let the
                                  owners of the plate have credit in Bank
                                  for the value of the plate, estimated
                                  on a scale that would make it for the
                                  advantage of the Bank to purchase.

 Art. XII. The Bank to            Remark 12. It will be of
 have a right to contract with    great importance to the success of the
 the French government for the    subscriptions, that a previous assurance
 supply of its fleets and armies  of these contracts should take place:
 in _America_, and to contract    the profits of them would be no trifling
 with Congress for the supply of  inducement to adventurers; it would have
 their armies.                    the air of employing the money subscribed
                                  in trade. As soon, therefore, as the plan
                                  should be resolved upon, negotiations
                                  should be begun for the purpose. It is
                                  so clearly the interest of the French
                                  government to enter into these contracts,
                                  that they must be blind not to do it,
                                  especially when it is proposed under the
                                  aspect of a method of re-establishing
                                  our finances. The present loss on their
                                  bills is enormous. The Bank may engage
                                  to receive them at a moderate discount,
                                  and to supply on better terms than they
                                  now make. Their business is at this time
                                  trusted to a variety of hands, some
                                  of which are neither very skilful nor
                                  very honest: competitions, frauds, and
                                  additional expense, are the consequences.

                                  Congress could not hesitate on their
                                  parts, as the amount of the contracts
                                  would be a part of the loan required in
                                  Article XIII.

 Art. XIII. The Bank              Remark 13. This loan will
 to lend Congress one million,    enable Congress to get through the
 two hundred thousand pounds,     expenses of the year. There may be a
 lawful, at eight per cent.       small deficiency, but this will be easily
 interest; for the payment of     supplied. The credit of the Bank once
 which, with its interest, a      established, it may increase its stock,
 certain unalienable fund of one  and lend an equal sum every year during
 hundred and ten thousand, four   the war. This loan may be advanced,
 hundred pounds per annum, to be  partly in a contract for provisions,
 established for twenty years.    clothing, etc., and partly in cash, at
 The States, generally and        periodical payments, to avoid a too quick
 severally, to pledge themselves  multiplication of Bank notes.
 for this sum, and for the due
 appropriation of the fund.
 Congress to have a right, at
 any intermediate period, to pay
 off the debt, with the interest
 to the time of payment. The
 same rule to govern in all
 future loans.

 Art. XIV. The Bank               Remark 14. It is of the greatest
 to become responsible for the    importance that the old currency should
 redemption of all the paper      be fixed at a certain value, or there
 now emitted; the old, at forty   will be danger of its infecting the
 for one in thirty years, the     future paper: besides, we want to raise
 new at par, with gold and        it to a point that will make it approach
 silver, according to the terms   nearer to an adequate medium. I have
 promised by Congress in their    chosen the resolution of March, ’80, as a
 resolution of March, ’80.        standard. We ought not, on any account,
 One-third of the first to be     to raise the value of the old paper
 redeemed at the end of every     higher than forty to one, for this will
 ten years; and the whole of      give it about the degree of value that
 the last to be redeemed at the   is most salutary; at the same time that
 expiration of the six years      it will avoid a second breach of faith,
 specified by Congress, with the  which would cause a violent death to
 interest of five per cent. The   all future credit. A stable currency is
 United States, in compensation   an idea fundamental to all practicable
 for this responsibility, to      schemes of finance. It is the duty and
 establish certain funds for an   interest of the public to give stability
 annuity, payable to the Bank,    to that which now exists; and it will be
 equal to the discharge of the    the interest of the Bank, which alone
 whole amount of the paper        can effect it, to co-operate. I have
 currency in thirty years, with   not mentioned the amount of the annuity
 an interest of two per cent.     to be paid by Congress, because I have
 per annum.                       not materials to judge what quantity
                                  of paper money now exists; since it
                                  will be necessary to take all the State
                                  emissions into the calculation. I suppose
                                  (including State emissions) there may be
                                  about four hundred millions of dollars of
                                  the old standard, and about four millions
                                  of the new.[16] This will give us, in
                                  specie-value, about fourteen millions
                                  of dollars. This is what the Bank is
                                  to become answerable for, and what the
                                  public is to pay, by an annuity of thirty
                                  years, with two per cent. interest. This
                                  annuity would amount to six hundred
                                  and eleven thousand, three hundred and
                                  thirty-three, and one-third, dollars,
                                  for which funds are to be provided. By
                                  a rough calculation, I find that the
                                  Bank would gain, in the thirty years,
                                  about three millions of dollars, on the
                                  simple footing of interest; and that it
                                  will, at different periods, have more
                                  public money in its possession, than it
                                  will be in advance at others: so that,
                                  upon the whole, the sum it will gain in
                                  interest, will be for the loan of its
                                  credit to the public, not of any specific
                                  sum of cash. Besides, the interest of
                                  the Bank may gain a very considerable
                                  sum by the purchases it may make of the
                                  old paper at its current value, before
                                  the influence of this plan has time to
                                  bring it back to the point at which it
                                  is intended to be fixed.[17] It is the
                                  obvious interest of the United States to
                                  concur in this plan, because, by paying
                                  three millions of dollars in interest
                                  to the Bank, more than it would have
                                  to pay to the money-holders, agreeably
                                  to its present engagements, it would
                                  avoid a new breach of faith, fix its
                                  circulating medium increased in value
                                  more than one-half, render the taxes more
                                  productive, and introduce order into its
                                  finances, without which our independence
                                  is lost. It will also have only about
                                  two-thirds of the funds to establish for
                                  this plan that are required by the Act of
                                  March, ’80, to discharge the new bills:
                                  it will, of course, reserve a large
                                  balance towards the current expenses,
                                  which is no insignificant consideration.
                                  Perhaps it may be imagined, that the same
                                  funds established for the redemption
                                  of the money in the same time, without
                                  passing through the Bank, would have an
                                  equal effect upon its credit, and then
                                  we should save the interest of two per
                                  cent. Experience proves the contrary. We
                                  find the new notes depreciating in the
                                  States which have provided good funds.
                                  The truth is, there is not confidence
                                  enough in any funds merely public. The
                                  responsibility of the Bank would beget
                                  a much stronger persuasion of the paper
                                  being redeemed, and have incomparably
                                  more efficacy in raising and confirming
                                  its credit. Besides, the Bank might
                                  immediately reduce the quantity by
                                  purchase, which the public could not do.
                                  It will be observed, that of the six
                                  millions of dollars which constitute our
                                  annual revenue, I require nine hundred
                                  and seventy-nine thousand, three hundred
                                  and thirty-three, and one-third, dollars,
                                  in funds, to reimburse the loan for the
                                  first year, and pay off the annuity for
                                  the redemption of the old paper. It may
                                  be asked, where these funds are to be
                                  procured in the present impotence of
                                  our federal government. I answer, there
                                  are ample means for them, and they must
                                  be had. Congress must deal plainly with
                                  their constituents. They must tell them,
                                  that power without revenue is a bubble;
                                  that unless they give them substantial
                                  resources of the latter, they will not
                                  have enough of the former, either to
                                  prosecute the war, or to maintain the
                                  Union in peace; that, in short, they
                                  must, in justice to the public and to
                                  their own honor, renounce the vain
                                  attempt of carrying on the war without
                                  either; a perseverance in which, can only
                                  deceive the people, and betray their
                                  safety. They must demand an instant,
                                  positive, and perpetual investiture of
                                  an impost on trade; a land tax, and a
                                  poll tax, to be collected by their own
                                  agents. This Act to become a part of the
                                  Confederation.

                                  It has ever been my opinion that Congress
                                  ought to have complete sovereignty in
                                  all but the mere municipal law of each
                                  State; and I wish to see a convention
                                  of all the States, with full power to
                                  alter and amend, finally and irrevocably,
                                  the present futile and senseless
                                  Confederation.

                                  The taxes specified, may be made to
                                  amount to three millions of dollars; the
                                  other three millions to be raised by
                                  requisition, as heretofore.

 Art. XV. The Bank                Remark 15. It is essential that
 notes to be received in payment  all taxes should be raised, throughout
 of all public customs and        the United States, in specie, or
 taxes, at an equivalent with     Bank notes at par, or the old paper
 gold and silver.                 at its current value at the time of
                                  payment. This will serve to increase
                                  the circulation and credit of the Bank
                                  notes; but no person should be obliged to
                                  receive them in private dealings. Their
                                  credit must depend on opinion; and this
                                  opinion would be injured by legislative
                                  interposition.

 Art. XVI. The Bank to            Remark 16. This permission
 dissolve itself whenever it      to dissolve or sell at pleasure, will
 thinks proper, making effectual  encourage men to adventure; and, when
 provision for the payment of     once engaged, the profits will make them
 its debts; and a proprietor      willing to continue.
 of Bank stock to have the
 privilege of selling out
 whenever he pleases.

 Art. XVII. The Bank to           Remark 17. This is chiefly
 be established for thirty years  to prevent some speculative men being
 by way of experiment.            alarmed, who, upon the whole, may think a
                                  paper credit detrimental and dangerous,
                                  though they would be willing, from
                                  necessity, to encourage it for a limited
                                  time. Experience, too, may show the
                                  defects of this plan, and give rise to
                                  alterations for the better.

 Art. XVIII. No other             Remark 18. Other Banks might
 Bank, public or private, to be   excite a competition prejudicial to the
 permitted during that period.    interests of this, and multiply and
                                  diversify paper credit too much.

 Art. XIX. Three Banks            Remark 19. These Banks ought
 to be erected in Massachusetts,  to be in the interior of the country,
 Pennsylvania, and Virginia, to   remote from danger, with every precaution
 facilitate the circulation and   for their security in every way. Their
 payment of the Bank notes.       distance from the capital trading points,
                                  will be an advantage, as it will make
                                  applications for the payment of Bank
                                  notes less convenient.

 Art. XX. The affairs             Remark 20. It is necessary, for
 of the Bank to be managed by     reciprocal security of the public, the
 twelve general Directors, men    proprietors, and the people, that the
 of reputation and fortune;       affairs of the Bank should be conducted
 eight of them to be chosen       under a joint direction.
 by the private proprietors,
 and four by Congress. The
 Minister of Finance to have the
 privilege of inspecting all
 their proceedings.

These, as has been already observed, are only intended as outlines;
the form of administration for the Bank, and all other matters, may
be easily determined, if the leading principles are once approved. We
shall find good models in the different European Banks, which we can
accommodate to our circumstances. Great care, in particular, should
be employed to guard against counterfeits; and I think methods may be
devised that would be effectual.

I see nothing to prevent the practicability of a plan of this kind, but
a distrust of the final success of the war, which may make men afraid
to risk any considerable part of their fortunes in the public funds;
but, without being an enthusiast, I will venture to assert, that, with
such a resource as is here proposed, the loss of our independence is
impossible. All we have to fear is, that the want of money may disband
the army, or so perplex and enfeeble our operations, as to create in
the people a general disgust and alarm, which may make them clamor for
peace on any terms. But if a judicious administration of our finances,
assisted by a Bank, takes place, and the ancient security of property
is restored, no convulsion is to be apprehended. Our opposition will
soon assume an aspect of system and vigor, that will relieve and
encourage the people, and put an end to the hopes of the enemy. ’Tis
evident they have it not in their power to subdue us by force of arms.
In all these States they have not more than fifteen thousand effective
troops, nor is it possible for them much to augment this number. The
East and West Indies demand reinforcements. In all the Islands, they
have not, at this time, above five thousand men; a force not more
than equal to the proper garrisoning of Jamaica alone; and which, the
moment they lose a maritime superiority in those seas, will leave them
much cause to fear for their possessions. They will probably send out
fifteen hundred or two thousand men, to recruit their regiments already
here; but this is the utmost they can do.

Our allies have five thousand men at Rhode Island, which, in the worst
event that can happen, will be recruited to eight, to co-operate with
us on a defensive plan. Should our army amount to no more than fifteen
thousand men, the combined forces, though not equal to the expulsion of
the enemy, will be equal to the purpose of compelling them to renounce
their offensive, and content themselves with maintaining one or two
capital points. This is on the supposition that the public have the
means of putting their troops in activity. By stopping the progress
of their conquests, and reducing them to an unmeaning and disgraceful
defensive, we destroy the national expectation of success, from which
the ministry draw their resources. It is not a vague conjecture, but
a fact founded on the best information, that, had it not been for the
capture of Charleston, and the victory of Camden, the ministry would
have been in the utmost embarrassment for the supplies of this year.
On the credit of those events, they procured a loan of five and twenty
millions. They are in a situation where a want of splendid successes
is ruin. They have carried taxation nearly to its extreme boundary;
they have mortgaged all their funds; they have a large unfunded debt,
besides the enormous mass which is funded. This must necessarily create
apprehensions in their most sanguine partisans: and if these are not
counteracted by flattering events, from time to time, they cannot much
longer continue the delusion. Indeed, in this case, I suppose they must
themselves despair.

The game we play is a sure game, if we play it with skill. I have
calculated, in the preceding observations, on the most disadvantageous
side. Many events may turn up, in the course of the summer, to make
even the present campaign decisive.

If we compare the real ability of France, for revenue, with that of
Great Britain; the economy and sagacity in the conduct of the finances
of the former; the extravagance and dissipation which are overwhelming
those of the latter; there will be found every reason to believe,
that the resources of France will outlast those of her adversary. Her
fleet is not much inferior, independent of that of Spain and Holland.
Combined with that of Spain, it is greatly superior. If the Dutch enter
into the war in earnest, and add their fleet, the superiority will be
irresistible. Notwithstanding the injury they may sustain in the first
instance, the Dutch will be still formidable: they are rich in credit,
and have extensive means for maritime power.

Except the Emperor, who is hostile, and the Dane, who is neutral,
all the rest of Europe are either friends to France or to our
independence. Never did a nation unite more circumstances in its favor
than we do: we have nothing against us but our own misconduct.

There are two classes of men among us, equally mistaken: one who, in
spite of daily experience, of accumulated distress, persist in a narrow
line of policy, and, amidst the most threatening dangers, fancy every
thing in perfect security. Another, who, judging too much from the
outside, alarmed by partial misfortunes, and the disordered state of
our finances, without estimating the real faculties of the parties,
give themselves up to an ignorant and ill-founded despondency. We want
to learn to appreciate our true situation and that of the enemy. This
would preserve us from a stupid insensibility to danger on the one
hand, and inspire us with a reasonable and enlightened confidence on
the other.

But let us suppose the worst, that we shall, after all, fail in our
independence; our return to Great Britain, whenever it should happen,
would be by compact. The war would terminate by a mediation. It cannot
be supposed that the mediator would be so devoted to Great Britain,
or would have so little consideration for France, as to oblige us to
revert to our former subjection by an unconditional surrender. While
they might confirm his dominion over us, they would endeavor to save
appearances for the honor of France, and stipulate terms as favorable
to us as would be compatible with a state of dependence. A general
amnesty, and the security of private property (of course the payment of
public debts), would be among the most simple and most indispensable.
This would comprehend the concerns of the Bank; and if, unfortunately
for our virtue, such a circumstance could operate as an inducement,
it might be added, that our enemies would be glad to find, and to
encourage such an institution among us for their own benefit.

A question may arise concerning the abilities of these States to pay
their debts after the establishment of their independence; and though
any doubt on this head must originate in gross ignorance, it may be
necessary to oppose it with more than general argument, as has been
done heretofore. A very summary and obvious calculation will show that
there is nothing to be dreaded on this head.

The funds of nine hundred and seventy-nine thousand, three hundred and
thirty-three, and one-third, dollars, proposed to be established for
paying off the loan of the first year, and for redeeming the present
paper, will, in thirty years, wipe off all the debts of the States,
except those contracted to foreigners, which, I imagine, do not amount
to four millions of dollars. Suppose we should be obliged, for two
years besides the present, to borrow an equal sum each year from the
Bank; the fund requisite to discharge these loans, on the same terms
with the first, will amount to seven hundred and thirty-six thousand
dollars, to be deducted from the five million, and twenty thousand,
six hundred and sixty-six, and two-thirds, dollars, remaining on the
annual revenue; which will reduce it to four millions, two hundred
and eighty-four thousand, six hundred and sixty-six, and two-thirds,
dollars: then the debt unfunded will be,

 To foreigners already contracted by supposition,         $4,000,000

 Deficiency of Revenue to the expense to be obtained on
 credit, the first year, besides the loan from the Bank,   1,479,333⅓

 Deficiency of Revenue for the second year deducting the
 fund for discharging the loan of this year,               1,847,333⅓

 Deficiency of Revenue for the third year, making the
 same deduction,                                           2,215,333⅓
                                                         ----------
                                                         $9,542,000

Should, then, the war last three years longer, which must probably
be the utmost term of its duration, we shall find ourselves with an
unfunded debt of nine million, five hundred and forty-two thousand
dollars, and an unappropriated revenue of four million, two hundred
and eighty-four thousand, six hundred and sixty-six, and two-thirds,
dollars.

The surplus of four millions, which is two hundred and eighty-four
thousand, six hundred and sixty-six, and two-thirds, dollars, and the
funds appropriated to the payment of the other debts which will revert
to the public at the end of thirty years, will be a sufficient fund
for the redemption of this debt in about thirty-five years: so that,
according to my plan, at the end of thirty-five years these States have
paid off the whole debt contracted on account of the war; and, in the
mean time, will have a clear revenue of four millions of dollars, for
defraying the expenses of their civil and military establishments.

This calculation supposes the ability of these States for revenue to
continue the same as they now are, which is a supposition both false
and unfavorable. Speaking within moderate bounds, our population will
be doubled in thirty years; there will be a confluence of emigrants
from all parts of the world; our commerce will have a proportionable
progress; and of course our wealth and capacity for revenue. It will be
a matter of choice if we are not out of debt in twenty years, without
at all encumbering the people.

A national debt, if it is not excessive, will be to us a national
blessing. It will be a powerful cement of our Union. It will also
create a necessity for keeping up taxation to a degree which, without
being oppressive, will be a spur to industry, remote as we are from
Europe, and shall be from danger. It were otherwise to be feared our
popular maxims would incline us to too great parsimony and indulgence.
We labor less now than any civilized nation of Europe; and a habit of
labor in the people, is as essential to the health and vigor of their
minds and bodies, as it is conducive to the welfare of the State. We
ought not to suffer our self-love to deceive us in a comparison upon
these points.

I have spun out this letter to a much greater length than I intended.
To develope the whole connection of my ideas on the subject, and
place my plan in the clearest light, I have indulged myself in many
observations which might have been omitted. I shall not longer intrude
upon your patience than to assure you of the sincere sentiments of
esteem with which I have the honor to be,

                             Sir, your most obedient and humble servant,
                             A. Hamilton.


[12] It is to be feared, too, that this sum is rated too high. Hitherto
we have not four hundred men from that State, nor very promising
accounts of those which may be expected.

[13] The proportion of the European armies, in general, to the national
population, is calculated at one to a hundred. By this rule, supposing
our population to be two and a half millions, our armies ought to
consist of twenty-five thousand men; but the proportion will naturally
be less in this country. Our population is more diffused; there is a
greater facility of procuring subsistence, fewer poor (and consequently
fewer of that class of men whose habits, tempers, and circumstances
lead them to embrace the military life) than in any other country in
the world. Hence it is, I say, twenty thousand men are as many as we
shall be able to raise. Experience justifies this opinion. In the
first paroxysms of enthusiasm our armies were larger. I believe, at
particular periods, we have had more than thirty thousand men in the
field: but our force has every year diminished, and has been for two
years past below the standard I have assigned. Immense efforts have
been made to procure men, but they have not been able to produce more.
This shows that our military system is still susceptible of great
reforms in favor of economy; but we dare not make them, because we
cannot pay the army. I also said, twenty thousand men would be as many
as we should stand in need of. The enemy have now less than this number
within the States; and cannot, in the future progress of the war, have
more.

An equal force, with the occasional aid of the militia, will confine
them within one or two capital points; and this will be their defeat.
But we have a further resource in the troops of our allies. We must
not dream of decisive enterprises, unless our allies will assist us
with twelve or fifteen thousand land troops, and an undisputed maritime
superiority. Then, with the aid of the militia, drawn out for a few
months, we may undertake and succeed. Our true policy, in the meantime,
is, to endeavor to form a solid compact force, proportioned to our
necessities.

[14] The possibility of making up so large a proportion of specie
will depend on foreign assistance. It could hardly be hoped to effect
it within ourselves, if, as I suppose, there are not more than six
millions of dollars in these States. It is true, plate is admitted;
but it is uncertain how far this may prove a resource. It were to be
wished the proportion of specie might be as large as possible: but,
perhaps, for fear of a failure, it may be advisable to alter the above
proportions, so as to have, upon the whole, about one-third in specie,
and two thirds in European funds and landed security.

[15] It may, perhaps, not be impossible to make some profitable
speculations on the bullion which the Spaniards are afraid to transport
from South America to Europe.

[16] It is impossible too soon to make some arrangement that will
enable Congress to put a stop to the further emission.

[17] There is another immense consideration. The proprietors of the
Bank will be the holders of a great part of this paper. They have it in
their power to double the value of it by this plan: which is, in other
words, to gain a hundred per cent.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                               De Peyster’s Point, May 2, 1781.

Sir:

I am extremely sorry to have embarrassed you by my late application,
and that you should think there are insuperable obstacles to a
compliance with it. Having renounced my expectations, I have no other
inducement for troubling your Excellency with a second letter, than to
obviate the appearance of having desired a thing inconsistent with the
good of the service, while I was acquainted with the circumstances that
made it so.

I was too interested a spectator of what happened in the case of
Major M’Pherson, not to have remarked, and not to recollect all the
circumstances. The opposition turned ostensibly on his being a brevet
officer, yet having a command in a corps formed entirely from one line:
the propriety of his being employed in a detachment from the army at
large, so far as I remember, was not disputed. In delicacy to Major
M’Pherson, no personal objections were formally made: but in reality
they existed, and contributed to the discontent. It was thought a
peculiar hardship, that a gentleman who had, for a long time, fought
against us, and had not taken part with us till a late period, and when
our affairs had assumed a more prosperous aspect, should be preferred
in one of the most honorary commands of the service. Your Excellency
must be convinced, that I mention this in no other view than to show
the sentiments of the officers at the time, and the whole grounds for
the opposition. My esteem for Major M’Pherson, and other reasons, make
it impossible I can have a different intention.

I know less of the motives of dissatisfaction in the case of Colonel
Gimat and Major Galvan; but I have understood that it is founded on
their being appointed in the light corps for two successive campaigns.

It would be uncandid in me, not to acknowledge that I believe a
disposition to exclude brevet officers in general from command, has
a great share in the opposition in every instance; and that so far
it affects my case. But, at the same time, it appears to me, this
principle alone can never be productive of more than momentary murmurs,
where it is not seconded by some plausible pretext. I also am convinced
that the Pennsylvania officers, for their own sakes, repented the
rash steps they had taken; and, on cool reflection, were happy in an
opportunity to relinquish their menaces of quitting a service to which
they were attached by habit, inclination, and interest, as well as by
patriotism. I believe, too, we shall never have a similar instance
in the army, unless the practice should be carried to excess. Major
Galvan, I am told, will probably be relieved. Colonel Gimat will be
then the only brevet officer remaining in command. Your Excellency is
the best judge of the proper limits; and there can be no doubt, that
the rights of particular officers ought to give place to the general
good and tranquillity of the service.

I cannot forbear repeating, that my case is peculiar, and dissimilar
to all the former. It is distinguished by the circumstances I have
before intimated; my early entrance into the service; my having made
the campaign of ’76, the most disagreeable of the war, at the head of
a company of artillery, and having been entitled, in that corps, to
a rank, equal in degree, more ancient in date, than I now possess;
my having made all the subsequent campaigns in the family of the
Commander-in-Chief, in a constant course of important and laborious
service. These are my pretensions, at this advanced period of the war,
to being employed in the only way which my situation admits; and I
imagine they would have their weight in the minds of the officers in
general. I only urge them a second time, as reasons which will not
suffer me to view the matter in the same light with your Excellency, or
to regard, as impracticable, my appointment in a light corps, should
there be one formed. I entreat they may be understood in this sense
only. I am incapable of wishing to obtain any object by importunity. I
assure your Excellency, that I am too well persuaded of your candor,
to attribute your refusal to any other cause than an apprehension of
inconveniences that may attend the appointment.

                           I have the honor to be, with perfect respect,
                           Sir, your most obed’t servant,
                           A. Hamilton.


General Washington. P. S. I have used the term brevet in the sense your
Excellency appears to have understood it in, as signifying, in general,
all officers not attached to any established corps. Congress seem,
however, to have made a distinction: they only give a kind of warrant
to those whom they designate as brevet officers. Mine is a regular
commission.




LE VICOMTE DE NOAILLES A HAMILTON.


                                         Newport, 10 May, 1781.

Je suis certain, mon cher Colonel, de vous faire plaisir en vous
apprenant que votre ami Laurens est arrivé à Paris en bonne santé, après
une traversée favorable. Au départ de la frégate La Concorde arrivée à
Boston avec M. de Barras amiral, qui vient prendre le commandement de
notre flotte, et M. le Vicomte de Rochambau, Mr. Laurens avait déjà eu
plusieurs conférences avec nos ministres; il aura été bien écouté et
bien entendu de celui qui est chargé du departement de la marine, ainsi
que de notre contrôleur général. Ces deux hommes paraissent influer
infiniment dans ce moment sur l’opinion du Roi de France et celle du
peuple; qui finit en France, comme dans tous les pays du monde par
être entendue. Vous saurez certainement quels sont les préparatifs
pour cette campagne; je désire que nous puissions délivrer l’Amérique
des souffrances qu’elle éprouve: quoique je ne sois point né dans un
pays libre mon cher Colonel, je verrai avec plaisir les fondemens que
vous allez établir pour le bonheur et la tranquillité d’un peuple chez
lequel toutes les nations de l’Europe auront les mêmes droits. Une fois
cette époque arrivée, l’Humanité jettera avec plaisir ses yeux sur
l’autre monde, et verra sans envie un peuple qui ne devra son bonheur
qu’à son propre courage. S’il m’est possible de placer une petite
pierre dans ce vaste edifice, je me trouverai parfaitement heureux.

Le Ministre chargé de gouverner les finances de notre puissance vient
d’obtenir du roi de France la permission de lui rendre un compte
public de son administration depuis cinq ans qu’il en a la direction:
cet exemple, le premier de ce genre a frappé l’Europe d’étonnement
et d’amiration pour la conduite de ce grand homme; il prouve qu’au
commencement de son ministère les dépenses de l’État excédait les
recettes de 24 millions. Les différentes économies qu’il a pu établir,
malgré la guerre et les frais énormes qu’elle exige, a rétabli non
seulement l’équilibre mais même un bénéfice de dix millions de rente
excédante et dix sept millions cinq-cent mille livres, employé
annuellement à des remboursements de rentes perpetuelles. Ce qui
produit maintenant 27 millions de rente de plus que de dépense. La
manière énergique, raisonnée et claire rend son ouvrage persuasif
aux yeux mêmes de ses ennemis. Je compte vous envoyer ce livre par la
première occasion et par celle-ci même, si l’homme qui vous remettra ma
lettre veut s’en charger.

Je vous demanderais pardon de mon importunité, mon cher Colonel, si je
n’avais pas été assez heureux pour vous donner de nouvelles de notre
ami. Je vous prie de ne pas douter de l’extrême plaisir que j’aurai
dans tous les temps de ma vie à vous prouver combien mon attachement
pour vous est tendre et sincère.

                                        Le Vicomte de Noailles.

Je vous prie de présenter mon respectueux hommage à Son Excellence
le Général Washington; il force ses ennemis mêmes à l’estimer, et
lorsqu’on l’a vu deux fois il laisse l’impression du respect le plus
tendre.

Col. Hamilton.




CARTER TO HAMILTON.

                                         Newport, May 18, 1781.

My Dear Sir:

       *       *       *       *       *

M. de Barras arrived a few days since, with the General’s son, in
a frigate from France. He has taken the command of the fleet. Seven
hundred land forces are now embarking, the wind is fair, and they sail
this day to meet the convoy expected from France, with provisions and
recruits for the regiments here. I fear they will have a very trifling
augmentation of force, and that this campaign will prove as inactive
as the last. I imagine you will be with General Washington at the
conference. You will have the pleasure to see General Chastellux,
who will give you this letter. At his return, I expect it will be
decided whether the army marches or not: at present it seems a matter
of great doubt, notwithstanding the preparations which are making.
I am astonished we hear nothing from the southward. I fear, if the
detachment, embarked at New-York, is destined for that quarter, that
the enemy will make a considerable progress.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                                Your friend and servant,
                                                John Carter.

Colonel Hamilton.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                                        Richmond, May 23, 1781.

My Dear Hamilton:

I have been long complaining that I had nothing to do; and want of
employment was an objection I had to my going to the southward. But
for the present, my dear friend, my complaint is quite of an opposite
nature; and I have so many arrangements to make, so many difficulties
to combat, so many enemies to deal with, that I am just that much of
a general, as will make me a historian of misfortunes, and nail my
name upon the ruins of what good folks are pleased to call the army in
Virginia.

There is an age past since I heard from you. I acknowledge that, on my
part, I have not written so often as I ought to have done; but you will
excuse this silence in favor of my very embarrassing circumstances.
However remote you may be from your former post of aid-de-camp to the
Commander-in-Chief, I am sure you are nevertheless acquainted with
every transaction at head quarters. My letters have served to your
information, and I shall consequently abstain from repetitions.

Our forced march saved Richmond; Phillips was going down; and thus far
I was very happy. Phillips’s return, his landing at Brandon, south side
of James River, and the unmolested journey of Lord Cornwallis through
North Carolina, made me apprehensive of the storm that was gathering.
I advanced towards Petersburg, and intended to have established a
communication upon James and Appamatox Rivers. Had Phillips marched to
Halifax, I was determined to follow him; and should have risked every
thing rather than to omit making a diversion in favor of Greene. But
that army took possession of Petersburg, and obliged me to stick to
this side of the river, from whence reinforcements are expected. Both
armies have formed their junction, and must consist of between four and
five thousand men. We have nine hundred continentals. Their infantry
is near five to one; their cavalry ten to one. Our militia are not
numerous, come without arms, and are not used to war. Government wants
energy; and there is nothing to enforce the laws. General Greene has
directed me to take command in this State; and I must tell, by the way,
that his letter is very polite and affectionate. It then became my duty
to arrange the departments, which I found in the greatest confusion and
relaxation. Nothing can be obtained, and yet expenses were enormous.

The Baron, and the few new levies he could collect, are ordered to
South Carolina. I am glad he goes, as the hatred of the Virginians to
him was truly hurtful to the service. Is it not strange that General
Wayne’s detachment cannot be heard of? They are to go to Carolina; but
should I want them for a few days, I am at liberty to keep them. This
permission I will improve, so far as to receive one blow, that, being
beat, I may at least be beat with some decency. There are accounts that
make Lord Cornwallis very strong: others make him very weak. In this
country there is no getting good intelligence.

I request you will write me, if you approve of my conduct. The command
of the waters, the superiority in cavalry, and the great disproportion
of forces, gave the enemy such advantages, that I durst not venture
out, and listen to my fondness for enterprise. To speak truth, I was
afraid of myself as much as of the enemy. Independence has rendered me
the more cautious, as I know my own warmth. But if the Pennsylvanians
come, Lord Cornwallis shall pay something for his victory.

I wish a reinforcement of _light infantry_, to recruit the battalions,
or a detachment under General Huntington was sent to me. I wish Laurens
or Sheldon were immediately dispatched with their horse.

Come here, my dear friend, and command our artillery in Virginia. I
want your advice and your exertions. If you grant my request, you will
vastly oblige,

                                                    Your friend,
                                                    La Fayette.

Colonel Hamilton.




MORRIS TO HAMILTON.


                                    Philadelphia, May 26, 1781.

Sir:

It is some time since I received your performance dated the 30th
of April last. I have read it with that attention which it justly
deserves, and finding many points of it to coincide with my own
opinions on the subject, it naturally strengthened that confidence
which every man ought to possess, to a certain degree, in his own
judgment. You will very soon see the plan of a Bank published, and
subscriptions opened for its establishment, having already met with the
approbation of Congress. It only remains for individuals to do their
part, and a foundation will be laid for the anticipation of taxes and
funds, by a paper credit that cannot depreciate.

The capital proposed falls far short of your idea, and, indeed, far
short of what it ought to be; but I am confident, if this is once
accomplished, the capital may afterwards be increased to almost any
amount. To propose a large sum in the outset, and fail in the attempt
to raise it, might prove fatal. To begin with what is clearly in our
power to accomplish, and on that beginning, to establish the credit
that will inevitably command the future increase of capital, seems the
most certain road to success. I have thought much about interweaving
a landed security with the capital of this Bank, but am apprehensive
it would convey to the public mind, an idea of paper being circulated
on that credit, and that the Bank, of consequence, must fail in its
payments, in case of any considerable run on it: and we must expect
that its ruin will be attempted, by external and internal foes. I have
therefore left that point to the future deliberations of the Directors
of this Bank, to whom, in due time, I shall communicate your address.
I esteem myself much your debtor for this piece, not merely on account
of the personal respect you have been pleased to express, but also on
account of your good intentions: and for these, and the pains you have
taken, I not only think, but on all proper occasions, shall say, the
public are also indebted to you.

My office is new, and I am young in the execution of it. Communications
from men of genius and abilities will always be acceptable; and yours
will always command the attention of, Sir,

                                          Your obedient, humble servant,
                                          Robert Morris.

Colonel Hamilton.




SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.


                                          Albany, May 30, 1781.

Dear Sir:

Your favor, covering copies of the letters which passed between the
General and you, I received on Friday last at Saratoga, which I left,
somewhat indisposed, on Sunday, and arrived in the evening. The fatigue
of the journey increased my disorder, which is the quinsy, with so
much rapidity, that before Tuesday morning I was twice bled to prevent
suffocation. The inflammation is subsiding, and I have been able to
swallow a little broth to-day. I propose to attend the Legislature the
latter end of the next week, when I shall have the pleasure of seeing
you at Fishkill on the Sunday following. I believe you may prepare
yourself to go to Philadelphia, as there is little doubt but you will
be appointed.

The enemy are arrived at Crown Point: their number not perfectly
ascertained, but I believe about two thousand. It is said they intend
to fortify there. A rumor prevails that the three companies of Van
Schaik’s, now to the northward, are to be called down. If so, I shall
instantly remove my family and stock from Saratoga, being certain, if I
delay it more than four days after the troops move, that the enemy will
possess themselves of the whole. Adieu.

                                                  I am, dear Sir,
                                                  Most affectionately
                                                  And sincerely,
                                                  Your obedient servant,
                                                  Ph: Schuyler.

Colonel Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MRS. HAMILTON.


                         Camp Near Dobbs’ Ferry, July 10, 1781.

The day before yesterday I arrived here, but for want of an opportunity
could not write any sooner; indeed, I know of none now. Finding when
I came here, that nothing was said on the subject of a command, I
wrote the General a letter, and inclosed him my commission. This
morning Tilghman came to me in his name, pressed me to retain my
commission, with an assurance that he would endeavor, by all means, to
give me a command, nearly such as I could have desired in the present
circumstances of the army. Though I know you would be happy to hear
I had rejected this proposal, it is a pleasure my reputation would
not permit me to afford you. I consented to retain my commission, and
accept the command. I quarter, at present, by a very polite and warm
invitation, with General Lincoln, and experience from the officers of
both armies every mark of esteem. * * *

                                                   A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                                   Camp, August 7, 1781.

Sir:

The other day I applied to Colonel Tilghman for an order for shoes,
for the two companies of levies. He thought, on a general principle,
it could not be granted; but as from the best of my own recollection,
confirmed by inquiry of others, I have reason to believe a distinction
was made last campaign in favor of the advanced corps, in the case
of Cortland’s regiment, I am induced to submit the matter to your
Excellency.

Your Excellency is sensible that the service of an advanced corps, must
be in general more active than of the line; and that, in a country
like this, the article of shoes is indispensable. If the men cannot be
supplied, they cannot perform the duty required of them; which will
make the service fall heavier upon that part of the corps which is not
under the same disability, as well as render a considerable part of
it of much less utility. I will not add any personal consideration to
those which affect the service; though it certainly cannot be a matter
of indifference to me.

The men, I am informed, have, in general, received a bounty of about
thirty pounds each, which is spent. The State makes no provision
for them; and the fact is, they cannot supply themselves: they must
therefore be destitute if they have not a continental supply.

The distinction last campaign, was, if I am not mistaken, that shoes
were an article of absolute necessity, and therefore to be allowed,
though the articles of clothing were refused.

                                            I have the honor to be,
                                            Very respectfully,
                                            Your Excellency’s
                                            Most ob’t and humble serv’t,
                                            A. Hamilton.

To General Washington.




HAMILTON TO MRS. HAMILTON.


                                                           August, 1781.

In my last letter I informed you that there was a greater prospect of
activity now, than there had been heretofore. I did this to prepare
your mind for an event which, I am sure, will give you pain. I begged
your father, at the same time, to intimate to you, by degrees, the
probability of its taking place. I used this method to prevent a
surprise, which might be too severe to you. A part of the army, my dear
girl, is going to Virginia, and I must, of necessity, be separated at a
much greater distance from my beloved wife. I cannot announce the fatal
necessity, without feeling every thing that a fond husband can feel. I
am unhappy; I am unhappy beyond expression. I am unhappy, because I am
to be so remote from you; because I am to hear from you less frequently
than I am accustomed to do. I am miserable, because I know you will
be so; I am wretched at the idea of flying so far from you, without
a single hour’s interview, to tell you all my pains and all my love.
But I cannot ask permission to visit you. It might be thought improper
to leave my corps at such a time, and upon such an occasion. I must
go without seeing you--I must go without embracing you;--alas! I must
go. But let no idea, other than of the distance we shall be asunder,
disquiet you. Though I said the prospects of activity will be greater,
I said it to give your expectations a different turn, and prepare you
for something disagreeable. It is ten to one that our views will be
disappointed, by Cornwallis retiring to South Carolina by land. At all
events, our operations will be over by the latter end of October, and I
will fly to my home. Don’t mention I am going to Virginia.




HAMILTON TO MRS. HAMILTON.


                                Head of Elk, September 6, 1781.

Yesterday, my lovely wife, I wrote to you, inclosing you a letter in
one to your father, to the care of Mr. Morris. To-morrow the post sets
out, and to-morrow we embark for Yorktown. I cannot refuse myself
the pleasure of writing you a few lines. Constantly uppermost in my
thoughts and affections, I am happy only when my moments are devoted
to some office that respects you. I would give the world to be able to
tell you all I feel and all I wish, but consult your own heart and you
will know mine. What a world will soon be between us! To support the
idea, all my fortitude is insufficient. What must be the case with you,
who have the most female of female hearts? I sink at the perspective of
your distress, and I look to heaven to be your guardian and supporter.
Circumstances that have just come to my knowledge, assure me that our
operations will be expeditious, as well as our success certain. Early
in November, as I promised you, we shall certainly meet. Cheer yourself
with this idea, and with the assurance of never more being separated.
Every day confirms me in the intention of renouncing public life, and
devoting myself wholly to you. Let others waste their time and their
tranquillity in a vain pursuit of power and glory; be it my object to
be happy in a quiet retreat with my better angel.

                                                   A. Hamilton.




SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.


                                    Albany, September 16, 1781.

My Dear Sir:

The mail which was taken a few days ago at Hampton, has probably
deprived me of the pleasure of a line from you.

We are advised, by a letter from Mr. Carter, that General Washington
embarked with all except the rear division of the French, at the head
of Elk on the 8th inst.; hence I hope you are now operating against
Cornwallis. It is difficult to judge with precision of your prospects
at this distance; but matters and appearances are so favorable, that
they justify a hope that the operations will be crowned with ample
success.

The Legislature of this State is to convene on the 1st of October, at
Poughkeepsie: delegates are to be chosen: your friends will propose
you. If you should be appointed, you will have time to consider,
whether to accept or refuse will be most eligible. Should Cornwallis
and his army fall into our hands, peace may, and probably will, be the
consequence. If so, I should most earnestly wish you in Congress: and
if not, I should still prefer it to your remaining in the army, for
reasons that are obvious.

                                           I am, dear Sir,
                                           Affectionately and sincerely,
                                           Your obedient servant,
                                           Ph: Schuyler.

Colonel Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO LA FAYETTE.


                          Camp Before York Town, Oct. 15, 1781.

Sir:

I have the honor to render you an account of the corps under my
command in your attack of last night upon the redoubt on the left
of the enemy’s lines. Agreeably to your orders we advanced in two
columns with unloaded arms: the right composed of Lieutenant-Colonel
Gimat’s battalion and my own, commanded by Major Fish; the left, of a
detachment commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Laurens, destined to take
the enemy in reverse, and intercept their retreat. The column on the
right was preceded by a vanguard of twenty men, led by Lieutenant
Mansfield; and a detachment of sappers and miners, commanded by Captain
Gilliland, for the purpose of removing obstructions.

The redoubt was commanded by Major Campbell, with a detachment of
British and German troops, and was completely in a state of defence.

The rapidity and immediate success of the assault are the best comment
on the behavior of the troops. Lieutenant-Colonel Laurens distinguished
himself by an exact and vigorous execution of his part of the plan, by
entering the enemy’s work with his corps among the foremost, and making
prisoner the commanding officer of the redoubt. Lieutenant-Colonel
Gimat’s battalion, which formed the van of the right-attack, and which
fell under my immediate observation, encouraged by the decisive and
animated example of their leader, advanced with an ardor and resolution
superior to every obstacle. They were well seconded by Major Fish
with the battalion under his command, who, when the front of the
column reached the abatis, unlocking his corps to the left, as he had
been directed, advanced with such celerity as to arrive in time to
participate in the assault.

Lieutenant Mansfield deserves particular commendation for the coolness,
firmness, and punctuality with which he conducted the vanguard.
Captain Olney, who commanded the first platoon of Gimat’s battalion,
is entitled to peculiar applause. He led his platoon into the work
with exemplary intrepidity, and received two bayonet wounds. Captain
Gilliland, with the detachment of sappers and miners, acquitted
themselves in a manner that did them great honor.

I do but justice to the several corps when I have the pleasure to
assure you, there was not an officer nor soldier whose behavior, if
it could be particularized, would not have a claim to the warmest
approbation. As it would have been attended with delay and loss, to
wait for the removal of the abatis and palisades, the ardor of the
troops was indulged in passing over them.

There was a happy coincidence of movements. The redoubt was in the same
moment enveloped and carried in every part. The enemy are entitled to
the acknowledgment of an honorable defence.

Permit me to have the satisfaction of expressing our obligations to
Col. Armand, Capt. Legongne, the Chevalier De Fontevieux and Capt.
Bedkin, officers of his corps, who, acting upon this occasion as
volunteers, proceeded at the head of the right column, and entering the
redoubt among the first, by their gallant example contributed to the
success of the enterprise.

Our killed and wounded you will perceive by the inclosed return. I
sensibly felt, at a critical period, the loss of the assistance of
Lieutenant-Colonel Gimat, who received a musket ball in his foot, which
obliged him to retire from the field. Captain Bets, of Laurens’s corps,
Captain Hunt and Lieutenant Mansfield, of Gimat’s, were wounded with
the bayonet in gallantly entering the work. Captain Kirkpatrick, of the
corps of sappers and miners, received a wound in the ditch.

Inclosed is a return of the prisoners. The killed and wounded of
the enemy did not exceed eight. Incapable of imitating examples of
barbarity, and forgetting recent provocations, the soldiery spared
every man who ceased to fight.

                                 I have the honor to be,
                                 With the warmest esteem and attachment,
                                 Sir, your most ob’t and humble serv’t,
                                 A. Hamilton,
                                 Lieut. Col. Commanding.


Major-General the Marquis De La Fayette.

 Return of the killed and wounded in the advanced corps commanded by
 Lieutenant-Colonel Hamilton, in an attack on the enemy’s left redoubt,
 on the evening of the 14th of Oct., 1781.

Table Key:
 K = Killed
 W = Wounded

 ===================++=======++=======++=======++========++=======++=======
                    || Lieut.||       ||       ||  Sub-  || Ser-  || Rank &
                    ||  Col. ||Majors.||Capt’s.||alterns.||geants.|| File.
 -------------------++---+---++---+---++---+---++---+----++---+---++---+---
                    || K | W || K | W || K | W || K | W  || K | W || K | W
 -------------------++---+---++---+---++---+---++---+----++---+---++---+---
 Lt. Col. Hamilton’s||   |   ||   |   ||   |   ||   |    ||   |   ||   |
   battalion,       ||   |   ||   |   ||   |   ||   |    ||   |   ||   |  4
 Lt. Col. Gimat’s   ||   |   ||   |   ||   |   ||   |    ||   |   ||   |
   battalion,       ||   | 1 ||   |   ||   | 2 ||   |    || 1 | 1 || 7 | 15
 Lt. Col. Laurens’  ||   |   ||   |   ||   |   ||   |    ||   |   ||   |
   detachment,      ||   |   ||   |   ||   | 1 ||   |    ||   |   || 1 |  5
 Corps of Sappers   ||   |   ||   |   ||   |   ||   |    ||   |   ||   |
   and Miners,      ||   |   ||   |   ||   | 1 ||   |    ||   |   ||   |  1
 -------------------++---+---++---+---++---+---++---+----++---+---++---+---
         Total,     ||   | 1 ||   |   ||   | 4 ||   |    || 1 | 1 || 8 | 25
 ===================++===+===++===+===++===+===++===+====++===+===++===+===




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                                                   1782.

Sir:

I need not observe to your Excellency, that respect for the opinion of
Congress will not permit me to be indifferent to the impressions they
may receive of my conduct. On this principle, though I do not think
the subject of the inclosed letter of sufficient importance to request
an official communication of it, yet I should be happy it might in
some way be known to the members of that honorable body. Should they
hereafter learn, that though retained on the list of their officers,
I am not in the execution of the duties of my station, I wish them
to be sensible, that it is not a diminution of zeal which induces me
voluntarily to withdraw my services, but that I only refrain from
intruding them, when circumstances seem to have made them either not
necessary or not desired; and that I shall not receive emoluments
without performing the conditions to which they were annexed. I also
wish them to be apprised upon what footing my future continuance in
the army is placed; that they may judge how far it is expedient to
permit it. I therefore take the liberty to request the favor of your
Excellency to impart the knowledge of my situation in such manner as
you think most convenient.

                                           I have the honor to be,
                                           With perfect respect,
                                           Your Excellency’s
                                           Most ob’t and humble servant,
                                           A. Hamilton.

General Washington.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                   Philadelphia, March 1, 1782.

Sir:

Your Excellency will, I am persuaded, readily admit the force of this
sentiment, that though it is the duty of a good citizen to devote his
services to the public, when it has occasion for them, he cannot, with
propriety or delicacy to himself, obtrude them when it either has, or
appears to have none. The difficulties I experienced last campaign in
obtaining a command, will not suffer me to make any further application
on that head.

As I have many reasons to consider my being employed hereafter in a
precarious light, the bare possibility of rendering an equivalent will
not justify, to my scruples, the receiving any future emoluments from
my commission. I therefore renounce, from this time, all claim to
the compensations attached to my military station during the war, or
after it. But I have motives which will not permit me to resolve on
a total resignation. I sincerely hope a prosperous train of affairs
may continue to make it no inconvenience to decline the services of
persons, whose zeal, in worse times, was found not altogether useless:
but as the most promising appearances are often reversed by unforeseen
disasters, and as unfortunate events may again make the same zeal
of some value, I am unwilling to put it out of my power to renew my
exertions in the common cause, in the line in which I have hitherto
acted.

I shall accordingly retain my rank while I am permitted to do it; and
take this opportunity to declare, that I shall be at all times ready
to obey the call of the public, in any capacity, civil or military
(consistent with what I owe to myself), in which there may be a
prospect of my contributing to the final attainment of the object for
which I embarked in the service.

                                                 I have the honor to be,
                                                 Very respectfully,
                                                 Your Excellency’s
                                                 Most obedient servant,
                                                 A. Hamilton.

General Washington.




HAMILTON TO MEADE.


                                     Philadelphia, March, 1782.

A half hour since brought me the pleasure of your letter of December
last. It went to Albany and came from thence to this place. I heartily
felicitate you on the birth of your daughter. I can well conceive your
happiness on that occasion, by that which I feel on a similar one.
Indeed, the sensations of a tender father of the child of a beloved
mother, can only be conceived by those who have experienced them.

Your heart, my Meade, is peculiarly formed for enjoyments of this
kind. You have every right to be a happy husband--a happy father. You
have every prospect of being so. I hope your felicity may never be
interrupted.

You cannot imagine how entirely domestic I am growing. I lose all taste
for the pursuits of ambition. I sigh for nothing but the company of
my wife and my baby. The ties of duty alone, or imagined duty, keep
me from renouncing public life altogether. It is, however, probable
I may not any longer be engaged in it. I have explained to you the
difficulties which I met with in obtaining a command last campaign. I
thought it incompatible with the delicacy due to myself, to make any
application this campaign. I have expressed this sentiment in a letter
to the General, and, retaining my rank only, have relinquished the
emoluments of my commission, declaring myself, notwithstanding, ready
at all times to obey the calls of the public. I don’t expect to hear
any of these, unless the state of our affairs should change for the
worse, and lest by any unforeseen accident that would happen, I choose
to keep myself in a situation again to contribute my aid. This prevents
a total resignation.

You were right in supposing I neglected to prepare what I promised you
at Philadelphia. The truth is, I was in such a hurry to get home that I
could think of nothing else. As I set out to-morrow morning for Albany,
I cannot from this place, send you the matter you wish.

Imagine, my dear Meade, what pleasure it must give Eliza and myself
to know that Mrs. Meade interests herself in us. Without a personal
acquaintance, we have been long attached to her. My visit at Mr.
Fitzhugh’s confirmed my partiality. Betsy is so fond of your family,
that she proposes to form a match between her boy and your girl,
provided you will engage to make the latter as amiable as her mother.

Truly, my dear Meade, I often regret that fortune has cast our
residence at such a distance from each other. It would be a serious
addition to my happiness if we lived where I could see you every day;
but fate has determined it otherwise. I am a little hurried, and can
only request, in addition, that you will present me most affectionately
to Mrs. Meade, and believe me to be,

                                        With the warmest
                                        And most unalterable friendship,
                                        Yours,
                                        A. Hamilton.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.[18]


                                         Paris, April 12, 1782.

Dear Hamilton:

However silent you may please to be, I will nevertheless remind you of
a friend who loves you tenderly, and who, by his attachment, deserves
a great share in your affection. This letter, my dear sir, will be
delivered or sent by Count de Segur, an intimate friend of mine, a
man of wit and of abilities, and whose society you will certainly be
pleased with. I warmly recommend him to you, and hope he will meet from
you with more than civilities. Now let us talk politics.

The old Ministry have retired, and Lord North was not sorry at the
opportunity. The new ministers are not much our friends: they are not
friends to each other: they have some honest men with little sense, and
some sensible men without honesty. They are forced to new measures, not
only by circumstances, but also by the dispositions they have formerly
announced.

_Entre nous seuls._ 81 [_the British Ministry_] gave a hint to 82
[_the French Ministers_], but it would not do without 54 [_America_].
Now the reverse will probably be done; after which, arrangements will
take place in a few months, and I wish you was here, not so much 205
[_Secretary to Dr. Franklin_], as to the Commission. However, I would
like 205 to be 125 [_Minister to the French Court_]. If you are 153
[_Member of Congress_], and if something is said to you there, I
wish you may be employed in the answer. 5 [_French ships_] without 9
[_Spanish ships_] (and 4 [_Dutch_] is nothing), will not, I fear, give
40 [_Charleston._] That is a cause of delay, and the 7 [_Spaniards_]
think much more of 8 [West Indies]. But I hope for 26 [_Carolina_]
and 22 [_Georgia_] in 18 [_September_]. 84 [_the King of France_] has
answered about 47 [_peace_], as you and I, and every good American,
may wish. In the present situation of affairs, I thought my presence
was more useful to the cause in this part of the world than it could
be on the other side of the Atlantic. I wish to have some matters well
arranged before I go, and then I hope to set sails towards my friends
in America.

Be pleased, my dear friend, to present my best respects to your lady.
My compliments wait on General Schuyler and all the family. Adieu, dear
Hamilton.

                                     With the most sincere attachment,
                                     I am, for ever,
                                     Your devoted, affectionate servant,
                                     La Fayette.

Colonel Hamilton.


[18] The _figures_ in the present letter are part of a cipher concerted
between Hamilton and La Fayette. The interpretations, here placed
between brackets, are written over the figures, on the originals, in
General Hamilton’s handwriting.--_Editor._




MORRIS TO HAMILTON.


                  Office of Finance, Philadelphia, May 2, 1782.

Sir:

Mr. Charles Stewart, late Commissary General of Issue, has informed me
you are disposed to quit the military line for the purpose of entering
into civil life. He, at the same time, induced me to believe, that you
would accept the office of Receiver of the Continental taxes for the
State of New-York. The intention of this letter is to offer you that
appointment. The duties of the office will appear, in a great degree,
from the publications made by me on this subject. In addition, it will
be necessary that you correspond frequently with me, and give accurate
accounts of whatever may be passing in your State, which it may be
necessary for this office to be acquainted with. But this, and other
things of that sort, will be more fully communicated after you have
signified your acceptance of the office. For the trouble of executing
it, I shall allow you one-fourth per cent. on the moneys you receive.
The amount of the quota called for from New-York, for the current
year, is, as you know, three hundred and seventy-three thousand,
five hundred and ninety-eight dollars. I shall be glad to know your
determination as soon as possible. I make to you no professions of my
confidence and esteem, because I hope they are unnecessary; but if they
are, my wish that you would accept the offer I make is the strongest
evidence I can give of them.

                                       I pray you, Sir, to believe me,
                                       Very respectfully,
                                       Your most ob’t and humble serv’t,
                                       Robert Morris.

Colonel Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MORRIS.


                                          Albany, May 18, 1782.

Sir:

I had this day the honor of receiving your letter of the second
instant, and am much obliged by the mark of your confidence which it
contains; and to Colonel Stewart for his friendly intentions upon the
occasion.

My military situation has indeed become so negative that I have no
motive to continue in it; and if my services could be of importance
to the public in a civil line, I should cheerfully obey its command.
But the plan which I have marked out to myself is the profession
of the law; and I am now engaged in a course of studies for that
purpose. Time is so precious to me, that I could not put myself in
the way of any interruptions, unless for an object of consequence to
the public or to myself. The present is not of this nature. Such are
the circumstances of this State, the benefit arising from the office
you propose would not, during the war, exceed yearly one hundred
pounds; for, unfortunately, I am persuaded it will not pay annually
into the Continental treasury above forty thousand pounds; and on a
peace establishment this will not be for some time to come much more
than doubled. You will perceive, sir, that an engagement of this kind
does not correspond with my views, and does not afford sufficient
inducement to relinquish them. I am not the less sensible of the
obliging motives which dictated the offer; and it will be an additional
one to that respect and esteem with which I have the honor to be, very
truly sir,

                                     Your most obedient, humble servant,
                                     A. Hamilton.

To the Hon. Robert Morris, Esq.




MORRIS TO HAMILTON.


                               Office of Finance, June 4, 1782.

Sir:

I have received your favor of the eighteenth of May. I am much obliged
by the friendly sentiments you express for me, which, be assured, I
shall retain a grateful sense of. I see, with you, that the office I
had the pleasure of offering, will not be equal to what your abilities
will gain in the profession of the law; but I did intend that the whole
sum should have been paid, although the whole quota of the taxes had
not been collected by the State: consequently the object is greater
than you supposed, and the business might probably be effected without
more attention than you could spare from your studies. If so, I should
still be happy in your acceptance; and will leave the matter open until
I have an opportunity of hearing from you upon the subject.

                                        I pray you to believe that I am,
                                        With unfeigned esteem,
                                        Your most obedient servant,
                                        Robert Morris.


Colonel Alexander Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MORRIS.


                                         Albany, June 17, 1782.

Sir:

The letter which you did me the honor to write me, of the fourth
instant, came to my hands too late to permit me to answer it by the
return of the same post. The explanation you give of your intention
in your late offer, makes it an object that will fully compensate for
the time it will deduct from my other occupations. In accepting it, I
have only one scruple, arising from a doubt whether the service I can
render, in the present state of things, will be an equivalent for the
compensation. The whole system (if it may be so called) of taxation
in this State is radically vicious, burthensome to the people, and
unproductive to Government. As the matter now stands, there seems to
be little for a Continental Receiver to do. The whole business appears
to be thrown into the hands of the County Treasurers; nor do I find
there is any appropriation made of any part of the taxes collected,
to Continental purposes, or any provision to authorize payment to the
officer you appoint: this, however, must be made. There is only one
way in which I can imagine a prospect of being materially useful;
that is, in seconding your applications to the State. In popular
assemblies much may sometimes be brought about by personal discussions,
by entering into details, and combating objections as they rise. If
it should, at any time, be thought advisable by you to empower me to
act in this capacity, I shall be happy to do every thing that depends
on me to effectuate your views. I flatter myself, to you, sir, I need
not profess that I suggest this, not from a desire to augment the
importance of office, but to advance the public interest.

It is of primary moment to me, as soon as possible to take my station
in the law; and on this consideration I am pressing to qualify myself
for admission the next term, which will be the latter end of July.
After this, if you think an interview with me necessary, I will
wait upon you in Philadelphia. In the mean time, I shall be happy
to receive your instructions, and shall direct my attention more
particularly to acquiring whatever information may be useful to my
future operations. I have read your publications at different times,
but as I have not the papers containing them in my possession, it
will be necessary that their contents should be comprised in your
instructions. A meeting of the Legislature is summoned early in the
next month, at which, if I previously receive your orders, it may be
possible to put matters in train.

I am truly indebted to you, sir, for the disposition you have
manifested upon this occasion; and I shall only add an assurance of my
endeavors to justify your confidence, and prove to you the sincerity of
that respectful attachment with which

                                             I am, Sir,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             A. Hamilton.

To Robert Morris, Esq.




HAMILTON TO COMFORT SANDS.


                                         Albany, June 22, 1782.

Sir:

Mr. Morris having lately offered me the appointment of Receiver of
Continental taxes for this State, I wish to collect as much and
as accurate information as possible of the situation of its money
concerns. It will be, among other things, of great importance that I
should form an idea of the money brought into the State and carried
out of it; and, with a view to this, I take the liberty to request you
will furnish me with an estimate of what you have reason to think you
will lay out in this State in the course of a year, in the transactions
of your contract business. Mr. Duer has been so obliging as to promise
me a sketch of his disbursements in this quarter, and has informed me
that you are principally charged with what relates to the supplies of
the main army as well as West Point; and will therefore be best able
to enlighten me on that head. The calculation may not admit of absolute
precision; but if it comes near the truth it will answer. It would be
useful that you could distinguish, as nearly as possible, what part
will be in specie, what in bank and in other notes. As this is a matter
that can be attended with no inconvenience to any person, and will be
conducive to the public utility, I flatter myself you will favor me
with a speedy communication.

                                             I am, with esteem, Sir,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             A. Hamilton.

To Comfort Sands, Esq.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                                          Paris, June 29, 1782.

My Dear Hamilton:

How it happens that I still am in Paris, I hardly can myself conceive;
and what is more surprising, there are two frigates going, neither
of which will carry your friend to America. Don’t think, however,
dear Hamilton, I am so much altered as to be kept here by pleasure
or private affairs. But in the present circumstances, the American
ministers have insisted upon my remaining some time longer at this
court; where, they say, I may render myself more useful to our cause,
than I can possibly be in America, during an inactive campaign. My
return, however, is only deferred for a few weeks; and after some
answers have arrived from England, which, I think, will discover the
views of, but not yet produce a reconciliation with, Great Britain, I
intend embarking for Philadelphia, where I hope to land in the first
days of September.

This stroke of Count de Grasse has greatly deranged my schemes. I hoped
for 40 [_Charleston_] and perhaps for better than that; but nothing
until 6 [_Jamaica_] was done. 40 [_Charleston_] I much expected. 9
[_the Spaniards_] don’t like 54 [_America_]. We must previously have
40 [_Charleston_]; and then, to put them in good humor, do something
about 8 [_West Indies_]; both of which are not yet done; and after
that I hope. But at all events, this campaign will be very inactive, I
think. However, they are going to take Gibraltar, and will gather so
many means of doing of it, that it is said they will succeed. After
this trial, the forces of the House of Bourbon will be distributed
with a better scale. 46 [_Negotiations_] is going on, and 47 [_Peace_]
expected; but not, I think, immediately. You have a good chance, and
I believe you have time, to be one of the 125 [_Commissioners_].
Jefferson does not come. Mr. Laurens, I am told, intends to return
home; and I cannot conceive (_entre nous_) what he is about. Mr. Adams
thinks his presence is wanting in Holland. I thought I had better give
you these intelligences.

Not a word from you since we parted in Virginia; but I am a
good-natured man, and will not get tired to speak to a deaf man. Adieu.

                                           Most affectionately,
                                           Your for ever devoted friend,
                                           La Fayette.

  To Lieutenant-Colonel
  Alexander Hamilton.




MORRIS TO HAMILTON.


                               Office of Finance, July 2, 1782.

Sir:

I yesterday received your letter of the seventeenth of June, and am
very happy to find you determined to accept the office I had the
pleasure of offering to you. I inclose the Commission, Instructions,
etc., together with a Bond for performance of the duties, which I must
request you to fill up, execute with some sufficient security, and
transmit.

The complaint you make of the system of taxation in New-York, might, I
believe, very justly be extended; for, though it may be more defective
in some than in others, it is, I fear, very far from perfect in any.
I had already heard that no part of the taxes were appropriated to
Continental purposes; but I expect that the Legislature will, when
they meet, make such appropriation, as well as lay new, and, I hope,
productive taxes, for the purposes of paying what may remain of their
quota. It gives me a singular pleasure to find, that you have yourself
pointed out one of the principal objects of your appointment. You will
find that it is specified in the inclosure of the fifteenth of April.
I do not conceive that any interview will be necessary, though I shall
always be happy to see you, when your leisure and convenience will
admit. In the mean time, I must request you to exert your talents in
forwarding with your Legislature, the views of Congress. Your former
situation in the army, the present situation of that very army, your
connections in the State, your perfect knowledge of men and measures,
and the abilities which heaven has blessed you with, will give you
a fine opportunity to forward the public service, by convincing the
Legislature of the necessity of copious supplies, and by convincing all
who have claims on the justice of Congress, that those claims exist
only by that hard necessity which arises from the negligence of the
States.

When to this, you shall superadd the conviction that what remains of
the war, being only a war of finance, solid arrangements of finance
must necessarily terminate favorably, not only to our hopes, but even
to our wishes; then, sir, the Governments will be disposed to lay, and
the people to bear, those burthens which are necessary; and then the
utility of your office, and of the officer, will be as manifest to
others as at present to me.

                                                 With perfect respect,
                                                 Your most obedient
                                                 And humble servant,
                                                 Robert Morris.

  Alexander Hamilton, Esq.,
  Receiver of Taxes for New-York.




HAMILTON TO MORRIS.


                                         Albany, July 13, 1782.

Sir:

I have this moment received your letter of the second inst., and as the
post will set out on its return in half an hour, I have little more
than time to acknowledge the receipt of it.

I shall, to-morrow morning, commence a journey to Poughkeepsie, where
the Legislature are assembled; and I will endeavor, by every step in
my power, to second your views; though, I am sorry to add, without
very sanguine expectations. I think it probable the Legislature will
do something: but whatever momentary effort they may make, till the
entire change of their present system, very little will be done. To
effect this, mountains of prejudice and particular interest are to be
levelled. For my own part, considering the late serious misfortune
of our ally, the spirit of reformation, of wisdom, and of unanimity,
which seems to have succeeded to that of blunder, perverseness, and
dissension in the British Government, and the universal reluctance of
these States to do what is right, I cannot help viewing our situation
as critical: and I feel it the duty of every citizen to exert his
faculties to the utmost to support the measures, especially those solid
arrangements of finance on which our safety depends.

I will, by next post, forward you the Bond executed with proper
sureties.

It is not in the spirit of compliment, but of sincerity, I assure you,
that the opinion I entertain of him who presides in the department,
was not one of the smallest motives to my acceptance of the office;
nor will that esteem and confidence which make me now sensibly feel
the obliging expressions of your letter, fail to have a great share in
influencing my future exertions.

                                        I have the honor to be,
                                        With perfect esteem and respect,
                                        Your obedient servant,
                                        A. Hamilton.


To Robert Morris, Esq.




HAMILTON TO GOV. CLINTON.


                                   Poughkeepsie, July 16, 1782.

Sir:

I have the honor to inclose your Excellency the copy of a warrant from
the Honorable Robert Morris, Esq., Superintendent of the Finances of
the United States; by which you will perceive that, agreeably to the
Resolution of Congress of the second of November last, he has appointed
me Receiver of the Continental taxes for this State. I am therefore
to request that the Legislature will be pleased to vest in me the
authority required by that Resolution.

It is a part of my duty to explain to the Legislature, from time to
time, the views of the Superintendent of Finance, in pursuance of the
orders of Congress, that they may be the better enabled to judge of the
measures most proper to be adopted for an effectual co-operation. For
this purpose, I pray your Excellency to impart my request, that I may
have the honor of a conference with a Committee of the two Houses, at
such time and place as they may find convenient.

                                        I have the honor to be,
                                        With perfect respect and esteem,
                                        Your Excellency’s
                                        Most obedient servant,
                                        A. Hamilton.

To his Excellency Governor Clinton.




HAMILTON TO MORRIS.


                                    Poughkeepsie, May 22, 1782.

Sir:

Agreeably to my letter to you from Albany, I came to this place, and
had an interview with a Committee of the Legislature, in which I
urged the several matters contained in your instructions. I strongly
represented the necessity of solid arrangements of finance; and, by
way of argument, pointed out all the defects of the present system. I
found every man convinced that something was wrong, but few that were
willing to recognize the mischief when defined, and consent to the
proper remedy. The quantum of taxes already imposed is so great as to
make it useless to impose any others to a considerable amount. A bill
has, however, passed both Houses, payable in specie, bank notes, or
your notes, for eighteen thousand pounds. It is at present appropriated
to your order; but I doubt whether some subsequent arrangement will not
take place for a different appropriation. The Commander-in-Chief has
applied for a quantity of forage, which the Legislature is devising
the means of furnishing; and I fear it will finish by diverting the
eighteen thousand pounds to that purpose. I have hitherto been able to
prevent this; but as it is of indispensable importance to me to leave
this place immediately, to prepare for my examination, for which I have
pledged myself the ensuing term, which is at hand, it is possible,
after I have left it, contrary ideas will prevail. Efforts have been
made to introduce a species of negotiable certificates, which I have
strenuously opposed. It has not yet taken place; but I am not clear how
the matter will terminate.

Should the bill for the eighteen thousand pounds go out in its present
form, I cannot hope that it will produce in the treasury above half the
sum; such are the vices of our present mode of collection.

A bill has also passed the Assembly for collecting arrearages of taxes,
payable in specie, bank notes, your notes; old Continental emissions
at one hundred and twenty-eight for one, and a species of certificates
issued by the State for the purchase of horses. This is now before the
Senate. The arrearages are very large.

Both Houses have unanimously passed a set of resolutions, to be
transmitted to Congress and the several States, proposing a Convention
of the States, to enlarge the powers of Congress and vest them with
funds. I think this a very eligible step, though I doubt of the
concurrence of the other States; but I am certain, without it, they
never will be brought to co-operate in any reasonable or effectual
plan. Urge reforms, or exertions, and the answer constantly is, What
avails it for one State to make them without the concert of the others?
It is in vain to expose the futility of this reasoning: it is founded
in all those passions which have the strongest influence on the human
mind.

The Legislature have also appointed, at my instance, a committee to
devise, in its recess, a more effectual system of taxation, and to
communicate with me on this subject. A good deal will depend on the
success of this attempt. Convinced of the absurdity of multiplying
taxes in the present mode, where, in effect, the payment is voluntary,
and the money received exhausted in the collection, I have labored
chiefly to instil the necessity of a change in the plan; and, though
not so rapidly as the exigency of public affairs requires, truth seems
to be making some progress.

There is no other appropriation to the use of Congress than of the
eighteen thousand pounds.

I shall, as soon as possible, give you a full and just view of the
situation and temper of this State. This cannot be till after my
intended examination: that over, I shall lay myself out in every way
that can promote your views and the public good.

I am informed you have an appointment to make of a Commissioner of
Accounts for this State. Permit me to suggest the expediency of
choosing a citizen of the State; a man who, to the qualifications
requisite for the execution of the office, adds an influence in its
affairs. I need not particularize the reasons of this suggestion. In my
next I will also take the liberty to mention some characters.

I omitted mentioning that the two Houses have also passed a bill,
authorizing Congress to adjust the quotas of the States on equitable
principles, agreeably to your recommendation.

                                    I have the honor to be,
                                    With sincere attachment and respect,
                                    Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                    A. Hamilton.


To the Hon. Robert Morris, Esq.




HAMILTON TO COLONEL HAY.


                                        Albany, August 3, 1782.

Dear Sir:

Mr. Morris, some time since, in a circular letter to the States,
among other things, requested to have an account of all the money,
provisions, transportations, etc., furnished by this State to the
United States, since the eighteenth of March, seventeen hundred and
eighty.

I have been very happy to hear, that this business has been intrusted
to your hands: for I am sure, feeling its importance, you will give it
all the dispatch in your power.

I have written to the Governor on the subject; but, lest other
occupations should delay his attention to it, I must request you to
inform me, precisely, what part of the matter has been intrusted to
your management, and what progress you have been able to make.

I shall also thank you to send me the amount of any certificates, or
paper money in any shape, which, through your office, have passed into
circulation, distinguishing the different species.

You will do me a favor by letting me hear from you as soon as possible.

                                              I am, with sincere esteem,
                                              Your obedient servant,
                                              A. Hamilton.

P. S. I must still trouble you with an additional request, which is,
that you let me know, as exactly as possible, the gross product of each
supply-bill in your department in specie value, and the amount of all
expenses on each. This I want, with a view to the subjects we have been
speaking of.

                                                                   A. H.




HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR CLINTON.


                                        Albany, August 8, 1782.

Sir:

I have lately received a letter from the Superintendent of Finance,
inclosing a copy of a circular letter from him to the several States,
dated twenty-fifth July, ’81, in which he requests information on the
following important points.

“What supplies, of every kind, money, provisions, forage,
transportation, etc., have been furnished by this State to the United
States, since the eighteenth of March, 1780.”

“The amount of the money in the treasury: the sums expected to be
there; the times they will probably be brought in; the appropriations.”

“The amount of the different paper currencies in the State; the
probable increase, or decrease, of each; and the respective rates of
depreciation.”

“The Acts passed since the eighteenth of March, 1780, for raising
taxes, furnishing supplies, etc.; the manner they have been executed;
the time necessary for them to operate; the consequences of their
operation; the policy of the State relative to laying, assessing,
levying, and collecting taxes.”

In his letter, which is _circular_, to the Receivers, he says the
answers he has received to these inquiries are few and short of the
object; and he therefore urges me to take the most speedy and effectual
means, in my power, to enable him to form a proper judgment on such
of the subjects referred to, as the actual state of things renders it
important to know.

In compliance with this, I request the favor of your Excellency to
inform me, what steps have been taken on the several heads of which the
above is an abstract: and what progress has been made in the business;
particularly with respect to the first article. I shall also be much
obliged to you to direct Mr. Holt to furnish me, without delay, with
the Acts mentioned in the inclosed list.

Your Excellency must have been too sensible of the necessity of
enabling the Director of the Finances of the United States to form a
just judgment of the true state of our affairs, to have omitted any
measure in your power to procure the fullest information on the several
matters submitted to you: and I am persuaded the business is in such a
train that little will be left for me to do.

I entreat you will do me the honor to let me hear from you as soon as
possible on the subject.

It would promote the public business, if you would be so good as to
direct Mr. Banker to supply me with such information as I might call
upon him for. He is very obliging, but without some authority for the
purpose, there is a delicacy in calling upon him. I wrote at the same
time to Mr. Holt, printer for the State, desiring him to forward me
the copies of the Acts above mentioned; and telling him, that if the
Governor did not make satisfaction, I would do it. These Acts were all
those relative to finance and supply, from March eighteenth, 1780, to
this time.

                                                  With perfect respect,
                                                  I am your Excellency’s
                                                  Most obedient servant,
                                                  A. Hamilton.

To His Excellency Governor Clinton.




HAMILTON TO THE COUNTY TREASURERS.


                                      Albany, August 5th, 1782.

Sir:

It will be of great utility to the State, and essential to the
execution of my instructions from the Superintendent of Finance, that
I should be able to ascertain, as speedily as possible, the expense
attending the collection of taxes within this State. In order to this,
I shall be much obliged to you to send me without delay an account of
what you have received in your county, since the beginning of the
year ’80 to this time, as well for the taxes laid for county purposes,
as for those imposed by the Legislature; and of the expenses of every
kind attending the collection; those of the supervisors, assessors, the
allowance to the collectors and to yourself.

When I assure you I want this information for an important purpose, I
doubt not you will forward it to me as speedily as it can be prepared,
and with as much accuracy as circumstances will permit; by doing which,
you will serve the public and oblige, Sir,

                                Your most obedient servant,
                                A. Hamilton,
                                Receiver of C. S. for the State of N. Y.




HAMILTON TO MORRIS.


                                                        August 13, 1782.

Dear Sir:

The speculation of evils, from the claims of Great Britain, gives
way to the pressure of inconveniences actually suffered; and we
required the event which has lately happened, the recognition of our
independence by the Dutch, to give a new spring to the public hopes and
the public passions. This has had a good effect. And if the Legislature
can be brought to adopt a wise plan for its finances, we may put the
people in better humor, and give a more regular and durable movement to
the machine. The people of this State, as far as my observation goes,
have as much firmness in their make, and as much submissiveness to
Government, as those of any part of the Union.

It remains for me to give you an explicit opinion of what it is
practicable for this State to do. Even with a judicious plan of
taxation, I do not think the State can afford, or the people will bear
to pay, more than seventy or eighty thousand pounds a year. In its
entire and flourishing state, according to my mode of calculating,
it could not have exceeded two hundred and thirty or forty thousand
pounds; and, reduced as it is, with the wheels of circulation so
exceedingly clogged for want of commerce and a sufficient medium,
more than I have said cannot be expected. Passed experience will not
authorize a more flattering conclusion.

Out of this is to be deducted the expense of the interior
administration of Government, and the money necessary for the levies
of men. The first amounts to about twelve thousand pounds, as you will
perceive by the inclosed statement; but I suppose the Legislature
would choose to retain fifteen thousand pounds. The money hitherto
yearly expended in recruits, has amounted to between twenty and
thirty thousand pounds; but, on a proper plan, ten thousand pounds
might suffice. There would then remain forty thousand pounds for your
department.

But this is on the supposition of a change of system; for, with the
present, I doubt there being paid into the Continental treasury
one-third the sum.

I am endeavoring to collect materials for greater certainty upon this
subject; but the business of supplies has been so diversified, lodged
in such a variety of independent hands, and so carelessly transacted,
that it is hardly possible to get any tolerable idea of the gross
and net product. With the help of these materials I shall strive to
convince the committee, when they meet, that a change of measures is
essential. If they enter cordially into right views, we may succeed:
but I confess I fear more than I hope.

I have taken every step in my power to procure the information you have
desired in your letter of July ’81; the most material part of it, an
account of the supplies furnished since March seventeen hundred and
eighty, has been committed to Colonel Hay. I have written to him, in
pressing terms, to accelerate the preparation.

You will perceive, sir, I have neither flattered the State, nor
encouraged high expectations. I thought it my duty to exhibit things as
they are, not as they ought to be. I shall be sorry if it give an ill
opinion of the State, for want of equal candor in the representation
of others; for, however disagreeable the reflection, I have too much
reason to believe, that the true picture of other States would be,
in proportion to their circumstances, equally unpromising. All my
inquiries, and all that appears, induces this opinion. I intend this
letter _in confidence_ to yourself, and therefore I endorse it private.

Before I conclude, I will say a word on a point that possibly you
would wish to be informed about. The contract up this way is executed
generously to the satisfaction of officers and soldiers; which is the
more meritorious in the contractor, as, in all probability, it will be
to him a losing undertaking.

                                  I have the honor to be,
                                  With sentiments of unfeigned respect,
                                  Sir, your most ob’t and humble serv’t,
                                  A. Hamilton.

To the Hon. Robert Morris, Esq.




GOVERNOR CLINTON TO HAMILTON.


                                 Poughkeepsie, August 18, 1782.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the third instant. I am not authorized
to direct the printer to deliver any of the laws, except a certain
number of sets which are by law directed for particular purposes. I
have, however, mentioned your desire to the gentlemen of the committee
appointed to superintend the printing and distribution of them, and
requested them to furnish you with a set, which I doubt not will be
complied with.

Some short time before the appointment of a Superintendent of Finance,
I transmitted to Congress the most perfect information I was able to
collect, of many of the matters mentioned in your letter; and it was my
intention, from time to time, to have continued these communications
to Mr. Morris; but our laws remaining so long unprinted, the dispersed
situation of the different public officers, and the difficulty,
from this circumstance, as well as the want of authority, in some
instances, to command the necessary returns, rendered it a business,
if not impracticable, requiring more time and attention than the
indispensable duties of my office afforded leisure to bestow. I shall,
however, be happy to give you every aid in my power to facilitate it.
The laws, with the returns which have lately been made by the different
public officers, and may be found on the files of the Legislature, and
in the treasurer’s office, will answer most of the questions stated.
The answers to the others, appear to me to depend, in some measure,
on matter of opinion; and, as the operation of our laws is often
obstructed, and the intended consequences defeated, by unforeseen
events arising from our embarrassed situation, they cannot be given
with any great degree of precision.

You will readily perceive, sir, that the treasurer, from the nature of
his office, is not, except in cases provided for by law, subject to my
control. I am persuaded, however, that he, as well as the clerks of the
Legislature, will readily give you every information and assistance
consistent with the duties of their respective offices.

                                    I am, with great respect and esteem,
                                    Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                    Geo. Clinton.

To Col. Alexander Hamilton.




PICKERING TO HAMILTON.


                                  New-Windsor, August 20, 1782.

Dear Sir:

I have some Bills of Exchange, drawn by Mr. Morris on John Swanwick,
which I am authorized to exchange with the receivers of the Continental
Taxes in any of the States eastward of Pennsylvania. Mr. Morris
informed me, that he had advised the Receivers of this measure, and
directed their taking up the bills whenever they were in cash. By taxes
or by loan, I expect this State will shortly furnish you with money. I
am indebted to the subjects of it by many special engagements, which I
am anxious to fulfil. You will therefore greatly oblige me, by giving
me, from time to time, information of the money you shall receive; and
in order to secure the earliest supply, I would lodge, if you please,
some of the bills in your hands. Bank notes or Mr. Morris’s notes will
be useful to me, though not so beneficial as cash.

                                             I am, dear Sir,
                                             With respect and esteem,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             Tim. Pickering,
                                             _Q. M. G._

Col. Alex. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MORRIS.


                                       Albany, August 25, 1782.

Sir:

This letter serves only to transmit the two last papers. I wish the
measures I have taken to satisfy you on the points you desire to be
informed of, had been attended with so much success as to enable me
now to transmit the result. But I find a singular confusion in the
accounts kept by the public officers from whom I must necessarily
derive my information, and a singular dilatoriness in complying with
my application, partly from indolence, and partly from jealousy of the
office. I hope, by the next post, to transmit you information on some
particulars.

                                            I have the honor to be, Sir,
                                            Your most obedient servant,
                                            A. Hamilton.


To Robert Morris, Esq.




HAMILTON TO MEADE.


                                       Albany, August 27, 1782.

I thank you, my dear Meade, for your letter of the first of this month,
which you will perceive has travelled much faster than has been usual
with our letters. Our correspondence, hitherto, has been unfortunate;
nor, in fact, can either of us compliment himself on his punctuality;
but you were right in concluding, that however indolence, or accident,
may interrupt our intercourse, nothing will interrupt our friendship.
Mine for you is built on the solid basis of a full conviction that you
deserve it, and that it is reciprocal; and it is the more firmly fixed
because you have few competitors. Experience is a continual comment on
the worthlessness of the human race; and the few exceptions we find
have the greater right to be valued in proportion as they are rare. I
know few men estimable, fewer amiable; and when I meet with one of the
last description, it is not in my power to withhold my affection.

       *       *       *       *       *

As to myself, I shall sit down in New-York when it opens; and this
period, we are told, approaches. No man looks forward to a peace with
more pleasure than I do; though no man would sacrifice less to it than
myself, if I were not convinced the people sigh for peace.

I have been studying the law for some months, and have lately been
licensed as an attorney. I wish to prepare myself by October for
examination as a counsellor; but some public avocation may possibly
prevent me.

I had almost forgotten to tell you, that I have been pretty unanimously
elected, by the Legislature of this State, a member of Congress, to
begin to serve in November. I do not hope to reform the State, although
I shall endeavor to do all the good I

       *       *       *       *       *

                                                   God bless you,
                                                   A. Hamilton.


To Colonel Meade.




MORRIS TO HAMILTON.


                            Office of Finance, August 28, 1782.

Sir:

I have duly received your several favors of the twenty-second and
twenty-seventh of July, and tenth and thirteenth of August. My not
answering them is owing to causes which you will easily conceive,
because you will easily conceive the multiplicity of objects to which
I must turn my attention. I am very sorry to learn that you can no
longer continue in the office of Receiver. It would have given me great
pleasure that you should have done so, because I am sure that you would
have rendered very signal service to the public cause: this you will
now do in another line, more important, as it is more extensive: and
the justness of your sentiments on public affairs, induces my warm
wish, that you may find a place in Congress so agreeable as that you
may be induced to continue in it.

I should readily have complied with your wish, as to a successor, but
there are many reasons which have called my attention to, and fixed
my choice upon, Doctor Tillotson. We will converse on this subject
when we meet. I am, however, very far from being unmindful of your
recommendations; and although I cannot name the citizen of any State
to settle the accounts of that particular State, consistently with
the general line of conduct I have laid down for myself; yet I shall
do, in other respects, what is in my power. I have not hitherto been
able to fix on a proper Commissioner for the State of New-York. The
office is vacant for New Hampshire and Rhode Island. I inclose you a
copy of the Ordinance on the subject, that you may know the powers,
duties, and emoluments; and I have to request that you offer these
places to Colonel Malcolm and Mr. Lawrence. You will make the first
offer, including the choice, as your own judgment may direct. Should
the gentlemen, or either of them, accept, you will be so kind as to
give me early notice. I will then immediately recommend them to the
States respectively; and on receiving their approbation, the proper
instructions, etc., can be expedited.

I am sorry to learn that any letter of mine should have given offence;
but I conclude that this effect must follow from many parts of my
writings and conduct; because the steady pursuit of what appears to
be the true line of duty, will necessarily cross the various oblique
views of interest and opinion. To offend is sometimes a fault, always
a misfortune. The letter in question is, I suppose, under the date of
the eleventh of December, of which I inclose you a copy. Let me, at
the same time, assure you, that in all your excellent letter of the
thirteenth instant, I most esteem the clause now in question; because
it contains that useful information which is least common. I will make
no apologies for the letter to any one, because apologies are rarely
useful; and where the intention has been good, they are, to candid
minds, unnecessary. Possessed of the facts, you can guard against
misrepresentation; and I have ever found that to be the most hostile
weapon which either my personal or political enemies have been able to
wield against me.

I have not, _even yet_, seen the Resolutions of your Legislature
relative to an extension of the powers of Congress. I had supposed
the same reason for them which you have expressed. Indeed, power is
generally such a darling object with weak minds, that they must feel
extreme reluctance to bid it farewell; neither do I believe that any
thing will induce a general consent to part with it, but a perfect
sense of absolute necessity. This may arise from two sources; the one
of reason, and the other of feeling: the former more safe and more
uncertain; the latter always severe and often dangerous. It is, my dear
sir, in circumstances like this, that a patriot mind, seeking the great
good of the whole, on enlightened principles, can best be distinguished
from those vulgar souls whose narrow optics can see but the little
circle of selfish concerns. Unhappily, such souls are but too common,
and but too often fill the seats of dignity and authority. A firm,
wise, manly system of federal government is what I once wished, what I
now hope, what I dare not expect, but what I will not despair of. Your
description of the mode of collecting taxes, contains an epitome of the
follies which prevail from one end of the continent to the other. There
is no end to the absurdity of human nature. Mankind seem to delight in
contrast and paradox; for surely nothing else could sanctify (during
a contest on the precise point of being taxed by our own consent) the
arbitrary policy which, on this subject, almost universally prevails.
God grant you success in your views to amend it. Your ideas on the
subject are perfectly correspondent to my own. As to your doubt on the
mode of collecting it, I would wish to obviate it by the observation,
that the farther off we can remove the appointment of Collectors from
popular influence, the more effectual will be their operations; and
the more they conform to the views of Congress, the more effectually
will they enable that body to provide for general defence. In political
life, the creature will generally pay some deference to both. The
having a double set of officers is indeed an evil; but a good thing is
not always to be rejected because of that necessary portion of evil
which, in the course of things, must be attached to it. Neither is this
a necessary evil; for, with a proper Federal Government, Army, Navy,
and Revenue, the Civil Administration might well be provided for by a
Stamp Act, Roads by Turnpikes, and Navigations by Tolls.

The account you give of the State is by no means flattering: and
the more true it appears, the more concern it gives me. The loan, I
hope, will be completed; and I wish the _whole_ amount of the tax
may be collected. The Forage plan I have disagreed to; and inclose,
for your information, the copy of my letter, on that subject, to the
Quartermaster General. I believe your State is exhausted: but perhaps
even you consider it as being more so than it is. The Certificates,
which now form a useless load, will (if the United States adopt,
and the several States agree to, a plan now before Congress) become
valuable property. This will afford great relief. The scarcity of
money, also, may be immediately relieved, if the love of popular
favor would so far give way to the love of public good, as to enforce
plentiful taxation. The necessity of having money will always produce
money. The desire of having it, produces, you see, so much as is
necessary to gratify the desire of enjoying foreign luxuries. Turn
the stream, which now flows in the channels of Commerce, to those of
Revenue, and the business is completed. Unfortunately for us, this is
an operation which requires fortitude, perseverance, virtue; and which
cannot be effected by the weak or wicked minds who have only partial,
private, or interested views.

When I consider the exertions which the country you possess has already
made, under striking disadvantages, and with astonishing prodigality of
national wealth, by pernicious modes of applying it; I persuade myself,
that regular, consistent efforts, would produce much more than you
suppose.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                             I am, with perfect respect,
                                             Your most obedient
                                             And humble servant,
                                             Robert Morris.

To Alexander Hamilton, Esq.




HAMILTON TO ROBERT MORRIS.


                                       Albany, August 31, 1782.

Sir:

I send you herewith all the acts of the Legislature of this State
since the Government has been organized; on the margin of which I have
numbered all the acts relative to the matters you mention in your
letter of July, ’81, to the States agreeable to the within list. I
inclose you the papers of the last week.

The indolence of some, and the repugnancy of others, make every trifle
lag so much in the execution, that I am not able at this time to give
you any further information. I wish to hear from you on the subject of
my former letters previous to the meeting of the Committee--the 15th of
the ensuing month.

                                      I have the honor to be very truly,
                                      Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                      A. H.

To the Honorable Superintendent of Finance.




GOVERNOR CLINTON TO HAMILTON.


                               Poughkeepsie, September 2, 1782.

Sir:

I am favored with your letter of the 25th instant, previous to which,
with a view of accelerating the collection of the last Tax, I had
prepared, and have since dispatched a circular letter to the several
County Treasurers, urging them and the other officers concerned, to a
prompt execution of their duty, or that in case of neglect the penalty
of the law will without favor be put into execution.

I have not received information from all the Counties, but in this and
some others, I know the business is in good train, and am led to hope
that the taxes will be speedily collected and paid in.

My agents employed to procure moneys on loan had some time since
transmitted me a small sum, but not sufficient to answer the orders
of the Legislature in favor of the Delegates and some other public
matters. As the channel through which this money is procured is subject
to interruption and disappointment, I cannot at present inform you of
any sum to be depended on, but I expect soon to see or hear from the
gentlemen, and you may rest assured of being informed of the result
without delay.

                                    I am, with great respect and esteem,
                                    Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                    Geo. Clinton.


Col. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO THE COUNTY TREASURERS.


                                     Albany, September 7, 1782.

Sir:

The fifteenth of this month is the period fixed for the payment of
the tax imposed at the last meeting of the Legislature for the use of
the United States. The public exigencies, and the reputation of the
State, require that every exertion should be made to collect this tax
with punctuality and dispatch; and it is, therefore, my duty to urge
you, that you employ the powers vested in you, and all your personal
influence, to induce the collectors to expedite the collection with all
the zeal and vigor in their power. While the other States are all doing
something, as a citizen of this, I shall feel a sensible mortification
in being obliged to continue publishing to the others, that this
State pays nothing in support of the war, as I have been under the
necessity of doing the last two months. Besides this, and other still
more weighty considerations, a regard to the subjects of the State
itself demands every exertion in our power. They have parted with their
property on the public faith, and it is impossible for the public to
fulfil its engagements to individuals, unless it is enabled to do it by
the equal and just contributions of the community at large.

                                             I am, Sir,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MORRIS.


                                     Albany, September 7, 1782.

Sir:

I have had the inclosed ready for some time; but in hopes of receiving
the returns of the certificates mentioned in memorandum B, I delayed
sending the present sketch. Having even received no answers from some
of the parties, who live at a distance from me, I suspect they have
done their business in so disorderly a manner (to say nothing worse of
it) that they are at a loss how to render the accounts; and I have,
therefore, concluded not to detain any longer what I have procured.

I do not take the step mentioned in memorandum A, because I doubted
its propriety. It might raise expectations about the old money, which,
possibly, it may not enter into your plans to raise: and, besides
this, by knowing what has been called in, in each State (which from
the sketch I send you, will appear as to this), you can determine the
balance of emissions remaining out, except what may have worn out and
been accidentally destroyed. If you desire this step to be taken, I
will obey your commands.

I have said nothing of the rates of depreciation, because I imagine
your letter, written in July, ’80, had reference to the rates at which
the money was then actually circulating, and the circulation has now
totally ceased. The laws I sent you by the last post, will inform you
of the rates fixed at different periods by the Legislature: forty,
seventy-five, and lastly, one hundred and twenty-eight. I am obliged to
infer there is a studied backwardness in the officers of the State, who
ought to give me the information you require respecting the supplies
of different kinds which have been furnished to the use of the United
States. Indeed, I find, on inquiry, that their joint information will
not be so full as to satisfy your intentions; and that this cannot be
done till you have appointed a commissioner of accounts, authorized to
enter into all the details, aided by some legislative arrangement which
may be obtained the next session.

                                        I have the honor to be,
                                        With great respect and esteem,
                                        Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                        A. Hamilton.


To Robert Morris, Esq.




HAMILTON TO TIMOTHY PICKERING.


                                     Albany, September 7, 1782.

Dear Sir:

I this day received your letter of the 20th August. Mr. Morris has
advised me of the bills you describe, and directed my purchasing them,
together with his notes, and the bank notes; with what money shall come
into my hands on public account. They are now beginning to collect the
tax imposed for the use of the United States, though I can as yet form
no judgment with what success or expedition. I shall with pleasure give
you the information you ask, but I would rather wish to be excused from
anticipation by previous deposits in my hands, as that will in some
measure pledge me to give a preference to the bills deposited, and may
hereafter expose me to a charge of partiality. There have been several
applications to me for a similar anticipation which I have avoided;
reserving to myself the power of paying the bills as they shall be
presented, and in proportion to the nearness or remoteness of the
periods of payments.

You may, however, depend that I shall be happy to assist your
department, and will keep in view your present request. I hope, towards
the latter end of the month, I shall receive something considerable on
the late tax.

                                             I am, dear Sir, very truly,
                                             Your obedient servant,
                                             A. Hamilton.

  To Timothy Pickering,
  D. Q. Gen.




HAMILTON TO ROBERT MORRIS.


                                        Albany, Sept. 14, 1782.

Sir:

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 29th
of August, the contents of which shall be executed.

I have just received by the post accounts of the specific supplies
furnished by the State; copies of which I shall prepare to be
transmitted to you by the next post, as I am to return the originals,
which are for the inspection of the Legislature. I hope to add to these
accounts of the moneys supplied.

I have written to you a number of letters since my journey to
Poughkeepsie, of which, as they contain some things of a confidential
nature, I am not without anxiety to learn the safe arrival.

I should also have been happy to have received your instructions
against the meeting of the Committee, which is to take place to-morrow.
As they will have other business, if I hear from you by the next post,
I shall not be too late. I am at a loss to know whether I ought to
press the establishment of permanent _funds_ or not; though unless I
receive your instructions, following my own apprehensions of what are
probably your views, I shall dwell on this article.

                                             I have the honor to be,
                                             With perfect respect,
                                             Sir, your most ob’t serv’t,
                                             A. Hamilton.

I inclose you a copy of a letter of the Governor, of the 2d inst., from
which you will see his hopes. Mine are not so good. In this vicinity,
always delinquent, little is doing.




HAMILTON TO ROBERT MORRIS.


                                        Albany, Sept. 21, 1782.

Sir:

The hurry in which I wrote to you by the last post, prevented my
examining particularly the papers which I informed you I had received.
On a more careful inspection of them, I found them not so complete as
I had hoped. There is a general state of specific supplies; but the
returns referred to in that for the particulars, were by some mistake
omitted. I have written for them, but they have not yet arrived; when
they do, I shall lose no time in forwarding them.

I observe there is nothing respecting transportation; and there is a
part of the supplies for the period before Col. Hay came into office,
which is estimated on a scale of proportion--too vague a method
to be satisfactory. I have urged him to send me an account of the
transportation, and to collect, as speedily as possible, official
returns of the supplies above mentioned.

There is a practice obtaining which appears to me to contravene your
views. The Contractors, I am informed, have gotten into a method of
carrying your bills immediately to the Collectors and drawing the
specie out of their hands, by which means the paper never goes into
circulation at all; but passes, so to speak, immediately out of one
hand of the public into the other. The people, therefore, can never be
familiarized to the paper, nor can it ever obtain a general currency.

If the specie were to come into the Receivers’ hands, and the
Contractors were left under a necessity of exerting their influence to
induce the inhabitants to take your notes, to be afterwards redeemed by
the Receivers agreeably to your plan, this would gradually accustom the
people to place confidence in the notes; and though the circulation at
first should be momentary, it might come to be more permanent.

I am in doubt, whether on the mere speculation of an evil, without your
instructions, I ought to take any step to prevent this practice. For,
should I forbid the exchange, it might possibly cause a suspicion that
there was a preference of the paper to the specie, which might injure
its credit.

I have thought of a method to prevent, without forbidding it in direct
terms. This was to require each collector to return the names of the
persons from whom he received taxes, and in different columns, specify
the kind of money, whether specie, your notes, or bank notes, in which
the tax was paid; giving the inhabitants receipts accordingly; and
paying in money in the same species in which it was received. This
would cover the object.

I have tried to prevail upon the county treasurer of this place, to
instruct the collectors accordingly; but the great aim of all these
people is to avoid trouble; and he affected to consider the matter as a
Herculean labor. Nor will it be done without a legislative injunction.

A method of this kind would tend much to check fraud in the collectors;
and would have many good consequences.

I thought it my duty, at any rate, to apprise you of the practice,
that, if my apprehensions are right, it may not be continued without
control. I have reason to believe it is very extensive--by no means
confined to this State.

Permit me to make one more observation. Your notes, though in credit
with the merchants by way of remittance, do not enter far into ordinary
circulation, and this principally on account of their size; which even
makes them inconvenient for paying taxes. The taxes of very few amount
to twenty dollars a single tax; and though the farmers might combine to
sell their produce for the notes, to pay the taxes jointly; yet this is
not always convenient, and will seldom be practised. If the notes were,
in considerable part, of five, eight, or ten dollars, their circulation
would be far more general; the merchants would, even in their retail
operations, give specie in exchange for balances; which few of them
care to do, or can do, with the larger notes; though they are willing
to take them for their goods.

                                                   A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MORRIS.


                                                     September 28, 1782.

Sir:

I have been honored this week with your letters of the twenty-eighth
of August, and the sixth, twelfth, and seventeenth instant, with their
inclosures.

It gives me the most real pleasure to find that my past communications
have met with your approbation; and I feel a particular satisfaction
in the friendly confidence which your letters manifest. I am persuaded
that substantial reasons have determined your choice in a particular
instance to Doctor Tillotson; and I am flattered by the attention you
have obligingly paid to my recommendations of Colonel Malcolm and Mr.
Lawrence. Those gentlemen are now here. They make you the warmest
acknowledgments for your offer, but decline leaving the State; which,
indeed, is not compatible with the present prospects of either of them.

I am glad to have had an opportunity of perusing your letter to this
State, at which so much exception has been taken; because it has
confirmed me in what I presumed, that there has been much unjustifiable
ill-humor upon the occasion. I will make use of the knowledge I have to
combat misrepresentation.

Yours of the twenty-ninth of July to Congress, is full of principles
and arguments as luminous as they are conclusive. It is to be lamented
that they have not had more weight than we are to infer from the
momentary expedient adopted by the resolutions of the fourth and tenth;
which will, alone, not be satisfactory to the public creditors; and
I fear will only tend to embarrass your present operations, without
answering the end in view. The more I see, the more I find reason for
those who love this country to weep over its blindness.

The committee on the subject of taxation are met. Some have their
plans; and they must protect their own children, however misshapen:
others have none; but are determined to find fault with all. I expect
little, but I shall promote any thing, though imperfect, that will mend
our situation.

                                        With sentiments of
                                        The greatest respect and esteem,
                                        I have the honor to be, Sir,
                                        Your most obedient servant,
                                        A. Hamilton.

P.S. The public creditors in this quarter, have had a meeting, and
appointed a committee to devise measures. The committee will report
petitions to Congress and the Legislature; and an address to the
public creditors in other parts of the State, to appoint persons to
meet in convention, to unite in some common measure. I believe they
will also propose a general convention of all the creditors in the
different States.

                                                                   A. H.

To the Hon. Robert Morris, Esq.




HAMILTON TO MORRIS.


                                          Albany, Oct. 5, 1782.

Sir:

In my last I informed you, that the committee, appointed by the
Legislature on the subject of taxation, were together. In spite of my
efforts, they have parted without doing any thing decisive. They have,
indeed, agreed upon several matters, and those of importance; but they
have not reduced them to the form of a report; which, in fact, leaves
every thing afloat, to be governed by the impressions of the moment,
when the Legislature meets.

The points agreed upon, are these: That there shall be an actual
valuation of land, and a tax of so much in the pound.

The great diversity in the qualities of land would not suffer them
to listen to an estimated valuation, or to a tax by the quantity,
agreeably to the idea in your late report to Congress. That there shall
be also a tariff of all personal property, to be also taxed at so much
in the pound; that there shall be a specific tax on carriages, clocks,
watches, and other similar articles of luxury; that money, at usury,
shall be taxed at a fixed rate in the pound, excluding that which is
loaned to the public; that houses, in all towns, shall be taxed at a
certain proportion of the annual rent; that there shall be a poll tax
on all single men from fifteen upwards; and that the collection of the
taxes should be advertised to the lowest bidder, at a fixed rate per
cent., bearing all subordinate expenses.

Among other things which were rejected, I pressed hard for an excise on
distilled liquors; but all that could be carried on this article was a
license on taverns.

The committee were pretty generally of opinion, that the system of
funding for payment of old debts, and for procuring further credit, was
wise and indispensable; but a majority thought it would be unwise in
one State to contribute in this way alone.

Nothing was decided on the quantum of taxes which the State was able to
pay: those who went furthest, did not exceed seventy thousand pounds,
of which fifty for the use of the United States.

I send you my cash account, which is for what has been received in this
county. We have not heard from the others.

                                            I have the honor to be, Sir,
                                            Your most obedient servant,
                                            A. Hamilton.

To the Hon. Robert Morris, Esq.




MORRIS TO HAMILTON.


                            Office of Finance, October 5, 1782.

Sir:

I have now before me your letters of the fourteenth and twenty-first
of last month. I am sorry to find that you are less sanguine in your
pecuniary expectations than the Governor appears to be; for I have
always found that the worst forebodings on this subject are the truest.
You will find, at the bottom of this letter, a list of all those which
I have hitherto received from you. I think they have all been already
acknowledged; but lest they should not, you will see in one moment, by
the list, whether any have miscarried.

I am not surprised to find that the contractors apply with their
paper, in the first instance, to the Receivers and Collectors. This I
expected, because much of that paper is not fit for other purposes.
Some of it, however, which is payable to the bearer, is calculated for
circulation; which you observe is not so general as otherwise it might
have been, by reason of the largeness of the sums expressed in the
notes. Mr. Duer’s letters contain the same sentiment.

In issuing this paper, one principal view was to facilitate the payment
of taxes by obviating the too general (though unjust) complaint of the
want of a circulating medium. In substituting paper to specie, the
first obstacle to be encountered, was the total diffidence which had
arisen from the late profusion of it. Had a considerable quantity been
thrown into the hands of that class of the people, whose ideas on the
subject of money, are more the offspring of habit than of reason, it
must have depreciated. That this apprehension was just, is clear from
this fact, that the paper I first issued, and the Bank paper which
came out after it, did depreciate from ten to fifteen per cent. in the
Eastern States, notwithstanding all the precautions which were used.
If I had not taken immediate measures to create a demand for it on the
spot, and to stop issues to that quarter, its credit would have been
totally lost for a time, and not easily restored. Besides that, the
quantities which were pouring in from thence would have done mischief
here. Confidence is a plant of very slow growth; and our political
situation is not too favorable to it. I am, therefore, very unwilling
to hazard the germ of a credit, which will, in its greater maturity,
become very useful. If my notes circulate only among mercantile people,
I do not regret it, but rather wish that the circulation may, for the
present, be confined to them, and to the wealthier members of other
professions. It is nothing but the greater convenience, which will
induce people to prefer any kind of paper to the precious metals;
and this convenience is principally felt in large sums. Whenever the
shopkeepers, in general, discover that my paper will answer as a
remittance to the principal ports, and will be readily exchanged by
the Receivers, they will as readily exchange it for other people. When
the people, in general, find that the shopkeepers receive it freely,
they will begin to look after it, and not before. For you must know,
that whatever fine plausible speeches may be made on this subject,
the farmers will not give full credit to money, merely because it will
pay taxes: for that is an object they are not very violently devoted
to. But that money which goes freely at the store and the tavern,
will be sought after as greedily as those things which the store and
the tavern contain. Still, however, your objection remains good; that
the traffickings in which the greater part of the community engage,
do not require sums so large as twenty dollars. This I shall readily
acknowledge: but you will observe there is infinitely less danger that
large notes, which go only through the hands of intelligent people,
will be counterfeited than small ones, which come to the possession of
illiterate men. When public credit is firmly established, the little
shocks it receives from the counterfeiters of paper money, do not
lead to material consequences; but, in the present ticklish state of
things, there is just ground of apprehension. Besides this, the value
of paper will depend much upon the interchanges of it for specie: and
these will not take place when there is a circulation of small paper.
Lastly, I have to observe, that until more reliance can be placed on
the revenues required, I dare not issue any very considerable amount
of this paper, lest I should be run upon for more than I could answer:
and as the circulation of what I dare issue, by increasing the general
mass, enables people (so far as it goes) more easily to get hold of
other money, it consequently produces, in its degree, that object of
facilitating taxation which I had in view.

                                     I am, Sir,
                                     Your most obedient, humble servant,
                                     Robert Morris.

  Alexander Hamilton, Esq.,
  Receiver for New-York.




HAMILTON TO DE NOAILLES.


                                                                   1782.

Esteem for your talents and acquirements is a sentiment which, from
my earliest acquaintance with you, my dear Viscount, I have shared
in common with all those who have the happiness of knowing you; but
a better knowledge of your character has given it, in my eyes, a
more intrinsic merit, and has attached me to you by a friendship
founded upon qualities as rare as they are estimable. Averse as I
am to professions, I cannot forbear indulging this declaration, to
express to you the pleasure I felt at receiving (after an inexplicable
delay) the letter you were so obliging as to write me before your
departure from Boston. It was of that kind which is always produced
by those attentions of friends we value; which, not being invited by
circumstances, nor necessitated by the forms of society, bespeak the
warmth of the heart. At least my partiality for you makes me fond of
viewing it in this light, and I cherish the opinion.

I was chagrined to find that you left us with an intention not to
return. Though I should be happy if, by a removal of the war, this
country should cease to be a proper theatre for your exertions, yet,
if it continues to be so, I hope you will find sufficient motives to
engage you to change your resolution. Wherever you are, you will be
useful and distinguished; but the ardent desire I have of meeting you
again, makes me wish America may be your destination. I would willingly
do it in France, as you invite me to do; but the prospect of this
is remote. I must make a more solid establishment here before I can
conveniently go abroad. There is no country I have a greater curiosity
to see, or which I am persuaded would be so interesting to me as yours.
I should be happy to renew and improve the valuable acquaintances from
thence, which this war has given me an opportunity of making; and,
though I could not flatter myself with deriving any advantage from it,
I am persuaded it is there I should meet with the greatest number of
those you describe, who, etc.: but considerations of primary importance
will oblige me to submit to the mortification of deferring my visit.

In the mean time I should be too much the gainer by communication with
you, not gladly to embrace the offer you so politely make for writing
to each other.

The period, since you left us, has been too barren of events to
enable me to impart any thing worth attention. The enemy continue in
possession of Charleston and Savannah, and leave us masters of the
rest of the country. General Greene has detached Wayne to Georgia;
but I believe his views do not extend beyond the mere possession of
the country. It is said the Assemblies of the two invaded States are
about meeting, to restore the administration of government. This
will be a step to strengthening the hands of General Greene, and
counteracting the future intrigues of the enemy. Many are sanguine in
believing that all the southern posts will be evacuated, and that a
fleet of transports is actually gone to bring the garrisons away. For
my part, I have doubts upon the subject. My politics are, that while
the present ministry can maintain their seats, and procure supplies,
they will prosecute the war on the mere chance of events; and that
while this is the plan, they will not evacuate posts so essential as
points of departure; from whence, on any favorable turn of affairs,
to renew their attack on our most vulnerable side. Nor will they
relinquish objects that would be so useful to them, should the worst
happen in a final negotiation. Clinton, it is said, is cutting a canal
across New-York island, through the low grounds, about a mile and a
half from the city. This will be an additional obstacle; but if we
have, otherwise, the necessary means to operate, it will not be an
insurmountable one. I do not hear that he is constructing any other new
works of consequence. To you, who are so thoroughly acquainted with
the military posture of things in this country, I need not say that
the activity of the next campaign must absolutely depend on effectual
succors from France. I am convinced we shall have a powerful advocate
in you. La Fayette, we know, will bring ‘the whole house’ with him if
he can.

There has been no material change in our internal situation since you
left us. The capital successes we have had, have served rather to
increase the hopes than the exertions of the particular States. But
in one respect we are in a mending way. Our financier has hitherto
conducted himself with great ability, has acquired an entire personal
confidence; revived, in some measure, the public credit; and is
conciliating fast the support of the moneyed men. His operations have
hitherto hinged chiefly on the seasonable aids from your country; but
he is urging the establishment of permanent funds among ourselves: and
though, from the nature and temper of our governments, his applications
will meet with a dilatory compliance, it is to be hoped they will by
degrees succeed.

The institution of a Bank has been very serviceable to him: the
commercial interest, finding great advantages in it, and anticipating
much greater, is disposed to promote the plan; and nothing but moderate
funds, permanently pledged for the security of lenders, is wanting to
make it an engine of the most extensive and solid utility. By the last
advices there is reason to believe the delinquent States will shortly
comply with the requisition of Congress for a duty on our imports.
This will be a great resource to Mr. Morris; but it will not alone be
sufficient.

Upon the whole, however, if the war continues another year, it will
be necessary that Congress should again recur to the generosity of
France for pecuniary assistance. The plans of the financier cannot be
so matured as to enable us, by any possibility, to dispense with this;
and if he should fail for want of support, we must replunge into that
confusion and distress which had like to have proved fatal to us, and
out of which we are slowly emerging. The cure, on a relapse, would be
infinitely more difficult than ever.

I have given you an uninteresting but a faithful sketch of our
situation. You may expect, from time to time, to receive from me the
progress of our affairs; and I know you will over-pay me.

                                                 I am, my dear Viscount,
                                                 Yours faithfully,
                                                 A. Hamilton.


To the Viscount De Noailles.




HAMILTON TO GREENE.


                                      Albany, October 12, 1782.

Dear General:

It is an age since I have either written to you or received a line
from you; yet I persuade myself you have not been the less convinced
of my affectionate attachment, and warm participation in all those
events which have given you that place in your country’s esteem and
approbation which I have known you to deserve, while your enemies and
rivals were most active in sullying your reputation.

You will perhaps learn, before this reaches you, that I have been
appointed a Member of Congress. I expect to go to Philadelphia in the
ensuing month, where I shall be happy to correspond with you with
our ancient confidence; and I shall entreat you not to confine your
observations to military subjects, but to take in the whole scope of
national concerns. I am sure your ideas will be useful to me and to the
public.

I feel the deepest affliction at the news we have just received of the
loss of our dear and estimable friend Laurens. His career of virtue
is at an end. How strangely are human affairs conducted, that so many
excellent qualities could not insure a more happy fate! The world will
feel the loss of a man who has left few like him behind, and America
of a citizen whose heart realized that patriotism of which others only
talk. I shall feel the loss of a friend I truly and most tenderly
loved, and one of a very small number.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                          I am, dear Sir,
                                          Truly your friend and servant,
                                          A. Hamilton.


To General Greene.




HAMILTON TO ROBERT MORRIS.


                                      Albany, October 26, 1782.

Sir:

I am honored with your letters of the 5th, 15th, and 16th instant.

The detail you have been pleased to enter into in that of the 15th,
exhibits very cogent reasons for confining yourself, to pretty large
denominations of notes; some of them had occurred to me, others had
not; but I thought it my duty to state to you the operation which
that circumstance had; as in the midst of the variety and extent of
the objects which occupy your attention, you may not have so good
opportunities of seeing the effect of your plans in detail. While I
acknowledge that your observations have corrected my ideas upon the
subject, and shown me that there would be danger in generally lessening
the denominations of the paper issued, I should be uncandid not to
add, that it still appears to me, there would be a preponderance of
advantages in having a part of a smaller amount. I shall not trouble
you at present with any further reasons for this opinion.

I have immediately on the receipt of your letter taken measures for the
publication of your advertisement in the newspapers of this State.

You will perceive by the inclosed cash account that I have received
five and twenty hundred dollars; this was procured in part of the loan
I mentioned to you. It was chiefly paid to me in specie, and I have
exchanged it with Colonel Pickering and Mr. Duer for your notes; the
latter had twelve hundred dollars. Taxes collect slowly, but I must
shortly receive two or three hundred pounds more, of which Mr. Duer
will have the principal benefit, as it appears by your letter to him,
that you hoped he might receive three thousand dollars from me.

As I may shortly set out for Philadelphia, I wish to surrender to Mr.
Tillotson, as soon as you think proper, the office in which he is to
succeed.

                                        I have the honor to be,
                                        With sincere respect and esteem,
                                        Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                        Alex. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO LA FAYETTE.


                                      Albany, November 3, 1782.

Since we parted, my dear Marquis, at Yorktown, I have received three
letters from you; one written on your way to Boston, two from France.
I acknowledge that I have written to you only once; but the reason
has been, that I have been taught daily to expect your return. This I
should not have done from my own calculations; for I saw no prospect
but of an inactive campaign; and you had much better be intriguing for
your hobby-horse at Paris, than loitering away your time here. Yet they
seem to be convinced, at head quarters, that you were certainly coming
out; and by your letters it appears to have been your own expectation.
I imagine you have relinquished it by this time.

I have been employed for the last ten months in rocking the cradle
and studying the art of _fleecing_ my neighbors. I am now a grave
counsellor-at-law, and shall soon be a grave member of Congress. The
Legislature, at their last session, took it into their heads to name
me, pretty unanimously, one of their delegates.

I am going to throw away a few months more in public life, and then
retire a simple citizen and good _paterfamilias_. I set out for
Philadelphia in a few days. You see the disposition I am in. You are
condemned to run the race of ambition all your life. I am already
tired of the career, and dare to leave it. But you would not give a pin
for my letter unless politics or war made a part of it. You tell me
they are employed in building _a peace_: and other accounts say it is
nearly finished. I hope the work may meet with no interruptions. It is
necessary for America; especially if your army is taken from us, as we
are told will soon be the case. That was an essential _point d’appui_,
though money was the _primum mobile_ of our finances, which must now
lose the little activity lately given them. Our trade is prodigiously
cramped. These States are in no humor for continuing exertions. If the
war lasts, it must be carried on by external succors. I make no apology
for the inertness of this country: I detest it: but since it exists, I
am sorry to see other resources diminish.

Your Ministers ought to know best what they are doing; but if the war
goes on, and the removal of the army does not prove an unwise measure,
I renounce all future pretensions to judgment. I think, however, the
circumstances of the enemy oblige them to peace.

We have been hoping that they would abandon their posts in these
States. It no doubt was once in contemplation, but latter appearances
are rather ambiguous. I begin to suspect that if peace is not made,
New-York and Charleston, the former at least, will still be held.

There is no probability that I shall be one of the Commissioners of
Peace. It is a thing I do not desire myself, and which I imagine other
people will not desire.

Our army is now in excellent order, but small.

The temper we are in respecting the alliance, you will see from public
acts. There never was a time of greater unanimity on that point.

I wish I durst enter into a greater detail with you; but our cipher is
not fit for it, and I fear to trust it in another shape.

Is there any thing you wish on this side the water? You know the warmth
and sincerity of my attachment. Command me.

I have not been so happy as to see Mr. De Segur. The title of your
friend would have been a title to every thing in my power to manifest.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                                   Yours _pour la vie_,
                                                   A. Hamilton.

P.S. I wrote a long letter to the Viscount De Noailles, whom I also
love. Has he received it? Is the worthy Gouvion well? Has he succeeded?
How is it with our friend Gimat? How is it with General Du Portail? All
those men are men of merit, and interest my best wishes.

Poor Laurens! He has fallen a sacrifice to his ardor in a trifling
skirmish in South Carolina. You know how truly I loved him, and will
judge how much I regret him.

I will write you again soon after my arrival at Philadelphia.

                                                                   A. H.

To the Marquis De La Fayette.




HAMILTON TO THE GOVERNOR OF RHODE ISLAND.


                                   Philadelphia, Dec. 11, 1782.

Sir:

Congress are equally affected and alarmed by the information they have
received, that the Legislature of your State, at their last meeting,
have refused their concurrence in establishing a duty on imports. They
consider this measure as so indispensable to the prosecution of the
war, that a sense of duty, and regard to the common safety, compel
them to renew their efforts to engage a compliance with it. And in
this view, they have determined to send a deputation of three members
to your State, as expressed in the inclosed resolution. The gentlemen
they have appointed will be able to lay before you a full and just
representation of public affairs, from which, they flatter themselves,
will result a conviction of the propriety of their solicitude upon
the present occasion. Convinced by past experience of the zeal and
patriotism of the State of Rhode Island, they cannot doubt that it will
yield to those urgent considerations which flow from a knowledge of our
true situation.

They will only briefly observe that the increasing discontents of
the army, the loud clamors of the public creditors, and the extreme
disproportion between the public supplies and the demands of the public
service, are so many invincible arguments for the fund recommended by
Congress. They feel themselves unable to devise any other that will
be more efficacious, less exceptionable, or more generally agreeable;
and if this is refused, they anticipate calamities of a most menacing
nature--with this consolation, however, that they have faithfully
discharged their trust, and that the mischiefs which follow cannot be
attributed to them.

A principal object of the proposed fund is to _procure loans abroad_.
If no security can be held out to lenders, the success of these must
necessarily be very limited. The last accounts on the subject were not
flattering; and when intelligence shall arrive in Europe, that the
State of Rhode Island has disagreed to the only fund which has yet
been devised, there is every reason to apprehend it will have a fatal
influence upon their future progress.

Deprived of this resource, our affairs must in all probability hasten
to a dangerous crisis, and these States be involved in greater
embarrassments than they have yet experienced, and from which it may be
much more difficult to emerge. Congress will only add a request to your
Excellency, that if the Legislature should not be sitting, it may be
called together as speedily as possible, to enable the gentlemen whom
they have deputed to perform the purpose of their mission.




GOVERNOR CLINTON TO HAMILTON.


                               Poughkeepsie, December 29, 1782.

Dear Sir:

Before I was honored by your letter of the eighteenth instant, I had
received a line from Colonel Floyd on the same subject. As my answer to
his is forwarded by the present conveyance, I beg leave to refer you
to it for information. I hope it may prove satisfactory; and I flatter
myself no further disappointment can take place. Should I, however,
be mistaken, you have only to advise me of it, and I will immediately
forward the cash.

Phelps, who was delayed on the road by the late heavy fall of snow,
waited on me a few days since, and delivered me your official
dispatches of the ninth instant. Considering the disposition heretofore
discovered by Congress, on the subject of our controversy with the
grants, their resolutions which you inclosed me, though short of what
we are justly entitled to, exceed my expectations; and I am not without
hope, if properly improved, may be the mean of leading to a just and
favorable issue. The idea of many of the military being interested
in the independency of Vermont, in consequence of their having taken
grants of lands under them, I believe is without foundation. There
was a period when the disposition of Congress, founded on political
expedience, appeared so favorable to the independence of that district,
as to have induced some gentlemen of the army to apply to the usurped
government for grants. But when it was discovered that they were
intriguing with the common enemy, the more respectable characters
withdrew their applications, and relinquished all kind of connection
with them; and even those who did not go so far, I imagine conceive
themselves perfectly secure under our late acts. If, however, this
should not be the case, any difficulty which may be apprehended from it
may be easily obviated; as I am persuaded the Legislature are disposed
to every liberal act that may consist with the honor of the State, and
tend to facilitate a settlement of the dispute. There was a time,
not long since, when Congress had only to have spoken decisively
on the subject, and they would have been obeyed: nor do I believe
the time is yet past, if they could be convinced that Congress were
in earnest. But if force is necessary to carry their decision into
execution, the longer it is delayed the more force it will require. The
misfortune is, though I believe there are but few States that favor
their independence, some members of those who do, take great pains to
encourage the revolters in their opposition, by secret assurances that
Congress will not direct any coercive measures against them: and I am
not without my fears that this conduct will, in some measure, defeat
the present resolutions.

                                   I am, with great respect and esteem,
                                   Dear Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                   George Clinton.

To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton, Esq.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                            (Most Private.)

                                           Cadix, Feb. 5, 1783.

Your friendship to me, my dear sir, and the affection I have for you,
command my most _confidential_ communications. As public affairs
have the first place with me, let me tell you that our Articles of
Confederation ought to be revised, and measures immediately taken
to invigorate the Continental Union; depend upon it, there lies the
danger for America; this last stroke is wanting, and unless the States
be strongly bound to each other, we have much to fear from British,
and, indeed, from European politics. There ought to be delegates from
each State, and perhaps some officers among them, one of whom I would
be happy to be, who, toward next fall, would meet together, and under
the presidence of General Washington, may devise upon amendments to
be proposed in the Articles of Confederation--limits of States, &c.,
&c., &c. As to the army, I hope their country will be grateful, I hope
the half pay affair may be terminated to their satisfaction. Now, my
dear sir, I am going to torment you with my private concerns. First of
all, I wish the people of America to know that, when I have lengthened
my furlough, it was for their service, and at the request of their
commissioners; that upon my embarking in a fresh expedition, it was
with a view to join you in the summer, with forces adequate to every
plan General Washington had directed me to promote; that, moreover, a
Canadian expedition was to take place; that then, instead of sending a
vessel, I was going myself to America. But that entreaties from your
residence at Madrid have forced me to go there, and probably from there
to Paris; but that in the month of June, I am to embark for America. I
confess, my dear sir, I have a great value for my American popularity,
and I want the people at large to know my affection to them and my
zeal for their service. The best way to manage it is to have a resolve
of Congress published, by way of answer to my letters, wherein their
approbation of my conduct will comprehend the above mentioned matters.

There is another thing which would highly flatter me, and lies
within your department; a ratification of the treaty will be sent by
Congress to the Court of England; it is but an honorary commission,
that requires only a few weeks, and even a few days’ attendance. The
sedentary Minister you may send, or with me, or after me, or, what I
would like better, at the time when Great Britain has sent hers to
you. So many greater proofs of confidence have been bestowed upon
me by Congress, that I may truly tell you my wishes upon this very
pleasing mark of their esteem. Upon my leaving England, I have been
considered there as an enthusiastic rebel, and, indeed, a young madman.
I would well enough like to present myself there in the capacity of
an Extraordinary Envoy from the United States; and though upon my
committing so far the French Ambassador, I have been with him on pretty
bad terms; now our friendship has revived, and I am in a situation to
lead him into my measures, and to know his secrets without telling him
mine.

As to the choice of a Minister, (this commission being only a
compliment,) I think it is a very difficult task. I advise to take a
gentleman who had no connection with the great men in England; our
friend Hamilton would be a very proper choice; you ought to bring it
about. Are you acquainted with Col. Harrison, who was in the General’s
family; there are few men so honest and sensible; but I hope you may
send Hamilton, and he knows better than all the British councils.

In case Congress were pleased to do for me what I have so much at
heart, I would beg you to send Mr. McHenry to me, a member in the
Maryland Senate. This, my dear sir, is entirely confidential for you,
and _for you alone_; should the General be in Philadelphia, you may
show it to him. Adieu. My best respects wait upon your lady and family.

                                                    Most affectionately,
                                                    I am yours,
                                                    La Fayette.

Should you think it of any use to have printed the last paragraph of
my letter to Congress, I will be glad of it, as the opinion of one who
knows Europe may have some weight with the people.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                Philadelphia, February 7, 1788.

Sir:

Flattering myself that your knowledge of me will induce you to receive
the observations I make, as dictated by a regard to the public good, I
take the liberty to suggest to you my ideas on some matters of delicacy
and importance. I view the present juncture as a very interesting one.
I need not observe how far the temper and situation of the army make
it so. The state of our finances was perhaps never more critical. I
am under injunctions which will not permit me to disclose some facts
that would at once demonstrate this position; but I think it probable
you will be possessed of them through another channel. It is, however,
certain, that there has scarcely been a period of the revolution
which called more for wisdom and decision in Congress. Unfortunately
for us, we are a body not governed by reason or foresight, but by
circumstances. It is probable we shall not take the proper measures;
and if we do not, a few months may open an embarrassing scene. This
will be the case, whether we have peace or a continuance of the war.

If the war continues, it would seem that the army must, in June,
subsist itself, _to defend the country_. If peace should take place, it
_will_ subsist itself, _to procure justice to itself_. It appears to be
a prevailing opinion in the army, that the disposition to recompense
their services, will cease with the necessity for them; and that if
they once lay down their arms, they part with the means of obtaining
justice. It is to be lamented that appearances afford too much ground
for their distrust.

It becomes a serious inquiry, What is the true line of policy? The
claims of the army, urged with moderation, but with firmness, may
operate on those weak minds which are influenced by their apprehensions
more than by their judgments, so as to produce a concurrence in the
measures which the exigencies of affairs demand. They may add weight
to the applications of Congress to the several States. So far a useful
turn may be given to them. But the difficulty will be, to keep a
_complaining_ and _suffering army_ within the bounds of moderation.

This your Excellency’s influence must effect. In order to it, it will
be advisable not to discountenance their endeavors to procure redress,
but rather, by the intervention of confidential and prudent persons,
_to take the direction of them_. This, however, must not appear. It
is of moment to the public tranquillity, that your Excellency should
preserve the confidence of the army without losing that of the people.
This will enable you, in case of extremity, to guide the torrent, and
to bring order, perhaps even good, out of confusion. ’Tis a part that
requires address; but ’tis one which your own situation, as well as the
welfare of the community, points out.

I will not conceal from your Excellency a truth which it is necessary
you should know. An idea is propagated in the army, that delicacy,
carried to an extreme, prevents your espousing its interests with
sufficient warmth. The falsehood of this opinion no one can be better
acquainted with than myself; but it is not the less mischievous for
being false. Its tendency is to impair that influence which you may
exert with advantage, should any commotions unhappily ensue, to
moderate the pretensions of the army, and make their conduct correspond
with their duty.

The great _desideratum_ at present, is the establishment of general
funds, which alone can do justice to the creditors of the United States
(of whom the army forms the most meritorious class), restore public
credit, and supply the future wants of government. This is the object
of all men of sense. In this, the influence of the army, properly
directed, may co-operate.

The intimations I have thrown out, will suffice to give your Excellency
a proper conception of my sentiments. You will judge of their
reasonableness or fallacy; but I persuade myself you will do justice to
my motives.

                                                I have the honor to be,
                                                With great respect,
                                                Your Excellency’s
                                                Most obedient servant,
                                                Alex. Hamilton.

General Knox has the confidence of the army, and is a man of sense. I
think he may be safely made use of. Situated as I am, your Excellency
will feel the confidential nature of these observations.

His Excellency General Washington.




DUANE TO HAMILTON.


                                 Newburgh, 17th February, 1783.

Dear Sir:

I am now on a visit from the General from Kingston, where the
Legislature is convened. The British King’s speech----to his
Parliament, and his Secretary’s letters to the Lord Mayor of London,
which we had the pleasure of meeting here, afford us the fairest
prospect of a speedy peace. I have but one anxiety remaining, and
that respects a better establishment of our General Government on
a basis that will secure the permanent union of the States, and a
punctual payment of the public debts. I do not think our Legislature
will be averse to a reasonable system. The Assembly have agreed to the
requisitions of Congress, and to press for the arrears of taxes; and
a joint committee of both Houses have taken measures to compel the
immediate production of the accounts of all who have been intrusted
with public money. This last step became so necessary, that I found
no difficulty in getting it adopted. I would even hazard an attempt
to introduce an intendant, if I had proper materials; but I am
disappointed in not receiving the Maryland plan, which was promised
me by Mr. Wright and Mr. Homsly. If possible, I still wish you would
forward this act on this subject, and for the collection of taxes. The
example of a State may be adopted, when any plan of my own might be
rejected. There is such confusion in the present administration of our
State finances, and the weight of our debts is so burthensome, that a
remedy must be provided; and I apprehend the production of the public
accounts, before alluded to, will furnish us with sufficient arguments
to prove its necessity.

We are in want of the report, and of the evidence and arguments in
support of our Territorial rights. If, as you proposed, you have taken
the trouble to copy it, be so obliging as to transmit your copy. Should
your leisure not have been sufficient for the undertaking, be pleased
to get it transcribed and forwarded. It is a collection of great
importance to the State, and if it should be lost, I do not know who
would submit to the labor of a second effort.

General Schuyler was sent for a week ago to pay the last duties to
your grandfather. He wrote me the tenth, that there was no hopes
of his surviving many days, but I learn that he was still living
four days ago, without the least prospect of recovery. From your
known punctuality, I take it for granted that you have written to me
agreeably to your promise, and that your letters have miscarried. Any
communication, while the Legislature are convened, would be peculiarly
acceptable, and probably useful.

Be pleased to present my respectful compliments to Colonel Floyd, to
Mrs. Hamilton, and Mr. and Mrs. Carter, and to the gentlemen of our
family, etc.

                             With the utmost regard, I remain, dear Sir,
                             Your affectionate and most
                             Obedient humble servant,
                             Jas. Duane.

Colonel Alexander Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR CLINTON.


                                                      February, 24, 1783

Sir:

In my letter of the fourteenth I informed your Excellency, that
Congress were employed in devising a plan for carrying the eighth
article of the Confederation into execution. This business is at
length brought to a conclusion. I inclose, for the information of the
Legislature, the proceedings upon it in different stages, by which
they will see the part I have acted. But as I was ultimately left in a
small minority, I think it my duty to explain the motives upon which my
opposition to the general course of the House was founded.

I am of opinion, that the article of the Confederation itself was
ill-judged. In the first place, I do not believe there is any general
representative of the wealth of a nation, the criterion of its ability
to pay taxes. There are only two that can be thought of, _land_ and
_numbers_.

The revenues of the United Provinces (general and particular) were
computed, before the present war, to more than half as much as those
of Great Britain. The extent of their territory is not one-fourth part
as great; their population less than a third. The comparison is still
more striking between those Provinces and the Swiss Cantons; in both
of which, extent of territory and population are nearly the same; and
yet the revenues of the former are five times as large as those of the
latter; nor could any efforts of taxation bring them to any thing like
a level. In both cases, the advantages for agriculture are superior
in those countries which afford least revenue in proportion. I have
selected these examples because they are most familiar; but whoever
will extend the comparison between the nations of the world, will
perceive that the position I have laid down is supported by universal
experience.

The truth is, the ability of a country to pay taxes depends on
infinite combinations of physical and moral causes, which can never
be accommodated to any general rule; climate, soil, productions,
advantages for navigation, government, genius of the people, progress
of arts and industry, and an endless variety of circumstances. The
diversities are sufficiently great, in these States, to make an
infinite difference in their relative wealth; the proportion of which
can never be found by any common measure whatever.

The only possible way, then, of making them contribute to the general
expense, in an equal proportion to their means, is by general taxes
imposed under Continental authority.

In this mode, there would, no doubt, be inequalities, and, for a
considerable time, material ones; but experience, and the constant
operation of a general interest, which, by the very collision of
particular interests, must, in the main, prevail in a Continental
deliberative, would at length correct those inequalities, and balance
one tax that should bear hard upon one State, by another that should
have proportional weight in others. This idea, however, was not, at the
period of framing the Confederation, and is not yet, agreeable to the
spirit of the time. To futurity we must leave the discovery, how far
this spirit is wise or foolish. One thing only is now certain; that
Congress, having the discretionary power of determining the quantum
of money to be paid into the general treasury towards defraying the
common expenses, have, in effect, the constitutional power of general
taxation.

The restraints upon the exercise of this power, amount to perpetuating
a rule for fixing the proportions, which must of necessity produce
inequality, and, by refusing the Federal Government a power of specific
taxation and of collection, without substituting any other adequate
means of coercion, do, in fact, leave the compliance with Continental
requisitions to the good will of the respective States. Inequality is
inherent in the theory of the Confederation; and, in the practice, that
inequality must increase in proportion to the honesty or dishonesty of
the component parts. This vice will either, in its consequences, reform
the Federal Constitution, or dissolve it.

If a general standard must be fixed, numbers were preferable to
land. Modes might be devised to ascertain the former with tolerable
precision; but I am persuaded the experiment will prove, that the value
of all the land in each State cannot be ascertained with any thing like
exactness. Both these measures have the common disadvantage of being no
equal representative of the wealth of the people; but one is much more
simple, definite, and certain than the other.

I have indulged myself in these remarks, to show that I have little
expectation of success from any mode of carrying the article in
question into execution upon equitable principles. I owe it, however,
to myself, to declare, that my opposition did not arise from this
source. The Confederation has pointed out this mode; and, though I
would heartily join in a representation of the difficulties (of which
every man of sense must be sensible on examination) that occur in the
execution of the plan, to induce the States to consent to a change,
yet, as this was not the disposition of a majority of Congress, I
would have assented to any mode of attempting it which was not either
obviously mischievous or impracticable.

The first plan proposed, as your Excellency will see, was an actual
valuation of each State by itself. This was evidently making the
interested party judge in his own cause. Those who have seen the
operation of this principle between the counties in the same State,
and the districts in the same county, cannot doubt a moment that the
valuations on this plan would have been altogether unequal and unjust.
Without supposing more liberality in one State than another, the degree
of care, judgment, and method, employed in the execution, would alone
make extreme differences in the results.

This mode has, also, the further inconvenience of awakening all the
jealousies of the several States against each other. Each would suspect
that its neighbor had favored itself, whether the partiality appeared
or not. It would be impossible to silence these distrusts, and to make
the States sit down satisfied with the justice of each other. Every new
requisition for money would be a new signal for discussion and clamor;
and the seeds of disunion, already sown too thick, would not be a
little multiplied.

To guard against these evils, the plan proposes a revision by Congress;
but it is easy to be seen that such a power could not be exercised.
Should any States return defective valuations, it would be difficult
to find sufficient evidence to determine them such. To alter would
not be admissible; for Congress could have no data which could be
presumed equivalent to those which must have governed the judgment of
commissioners under oath, or an actual view of the premises. To do
either this, or to reject, would be an impeachment of the honor of the
States, which it is not probable there would be decision enough to
hazard; and which, if done, could not fail to excite serious disgusts.
There is a wide difference between a single State exercising such a
power over its own counties, and a Confederated Government exercising
it over sovereign States which compose the Confederacy. It might also
happen, that too many States would be interested in the defective
valuations, to leave a sufficient number willing, either to alter or to
reject.

These considerations prevailed to prevent the plan being adopted by a
majority.

The last plan may be less mischievous than the first; but it appears
to me altogether ineffectual. The mere quantity of land granted and
surveyed, with the general species of buildings upon them, can
certainly be no criteria to determine their value. The plan does not
even distinguish the improved from the unimproved land; the qualities
of soil, or degrees of improvement: the quantities of the houses and
other buildings, are entirely omitted. These, it seems, are to be
judged of by the commissioners to be appointed by each State. But I am
unable to conceive, how any commissioner can form the least estimate
of these circumstances with respect even to his own State, much less
with respect to other States, which would be necessary to establish
a just relative value. If even there was a distinction of improved
from unimproved land, by supposing an intrinsic value in the land, and
adopting general rates, something nearer the truth might be attained;
but it must now be all conjecture and uncertainty.

The numbers of inhabitants, distinguishing white from black, are called
for. This is not only totally foreign to the Confederation, but can
answer no reasonable purpose. It has been said, that the proportion
of numbers may guide and correct the estimates. An assertion, purely
verbal, has no meaning. A judgment must first be formed of the value
of the lands upon some principles. If this should be altered by the
proportion of numbers, it is plain numbers would be substituted to land.

Another objection to this plan is, that it lets in the particular
interests of the States, to operate in the returns of the quantities of
land, number of buildings, and number of inhabitants. But the principle
of this objection applies less forcibly here than against the former
plan.

Whoever will consider the plain import of the eighth article of the
Confederation, must be convinced, that it intended an _actual_ and
_specific_ valuation of land, buildings, and improvements, not a mere
general estimate, according to the present plan. While we insist,
therefore, upon adhering to the Confederation, we should do it in
reality, not barely in appearance.

Many of those who voted for this scheme, had as bad an opinion of it
as myself; but they were induced to accede to it, by a persuasion that
some plan for the purpose was expected by the States; and that none
better, in the present circumstances of the country, could be fallen
upon.

A leading rule which I have laid down for the direction of my conduct,
is this: that while I would have a just deference for the expectations
of the States, I would never consent to amuse them by attempts which
must either fail in the execution, or be productive of evil. I would
rather incur the negative inconveniences of delay than the positive
mischiefs of injudicious expedients. A contrary conduct serves to
destroy confidence in the government, the greatest misfortune that can
befall a nation. There should, in my opinion, be a character of wisdom
and efficiency in all the measures of the Federal Council, the opposite
of a spirit of temporizing concession.

I would have sufficient reliance on the judgments of the several
States, to hope that good reasons for not attempting a thing, would be
more satisfactory to them than precipitate and fruitless attempts.

My idea is, that, taking it for granted the States will expect an
experiment on the principle of the Confederation, the best plan will
be to make it by commissioners appointed by Congress, and acting under
their authority. Congress might, in the first instance, appoint three
or more of the principal characters in each State for probity and
abilities, with a power to nominate other commissioners under them, in
each subdivision of the State. General principles might be laid down
for the regulation of their conduct, by which uniformity in the manner
of conducting the business would obtain. Sanctions of such solemnity
might be prescribed, and such notoriety given to every part of the
transaction, that the commissioners could neither be careless nor
partial without a sacrifice of reputation.

To carry this plan, however, into effect, with sufficient care and
accuracy, would be a work both of time and expense; and, unfortunately,
we are so pressed to find money for calls of immediate necessity, that
we could not, at present, undertake a measure which would require so
large a sum.

To me it appears evident, that every part of a business which is of
so important and universal concern, should be transacted on uniform
principles, and under the direction of that _body_ which has a common
interest.

In general, I regard the present moment, probably the dawn of peace,
as peculiarly critical; and the measures which it shall produce, as
of great importance to the future welfare of these States. I am,
therefore, scrupulously cautious of assenting to plans which appear to
me founded on false principles.

Your Excellency will observe, that the valuation of the lands is to be
the standard for adjusting the accounts, for past supplies, between the
United States and the particular States. This, if adhered to, without
allowance for the circumstances of those States which have been more
immediately the theatre of the war, will charge our State for the past,
according to its _future ability_, when in an entire condition, if the
valuation should be made after we regain possession of the parts of the
State now in the power of the enemy.

I have heretofore introduced a motion for repeating the call, in a
more earnest manner, upon the States, to vest Congress with a power of
making equitable abatements, agreeably to the spirit of the Resolution
of the twentieth of February last, which few of the States have
complied with. This motion has been committed. I know not what will be
its fate.

Notwithstanding the opposition I have given, now the matter has been
decided in Congress, I hope the State will cheerfully comply with what
is required. Unless each State is governed by this principle, there is
an end of the Union. Every State will, no doubt, have a right, in this
case, to accompany its compliance with such remarks as it may think
proper.

                                    I have the honor to be,
                                    Your Excellency’s most ob’t servant,
                                    A. Hamilton.

P. S. After the plan was agreed upon, it was committed to be put into
form; and, when reported, instead of commissioners, an alteration was
carried for making the estimate by a Grand Committee.

                                                            February 27.

Mr. Morris has signified to Congress, his resolution to resign by the
first of June, if adequate funds are not by that time provided. This
will be a severe stroke to our affairs. No man, fit for the office,
will be willing to supply his place, for the very reason he resigns.

’Tis happy for us we have reasons to expect a peace. I am sorry that,
by different accounts, it appears not to have been concluded late in
December.

To His Excellency Governor Clinton.




GOVERNOR CLINTON TO HAMILTON.


                                   Kingston, February 24, 1783.

Sir:

I have been honored by your letter of the twelfth of January. You may
remember, that in July last, I submitted to the consideration of our
Legislature, certain Resolutions of the Assembly of New Hampshire,
making overtures for an amicable settlement of a boundary line between
the two States; which were read and committed: but as the session
was short, and devoted principally to the particular business for
which they were convened, no determination was had on the subject. I
had some reason to expect a consideration of these Resolutions would
have taken place at the present meeting. This induced me to defer
answering your letter until I could inform you of the result. I cannot,
however, discover any disposition to take up this business. It seems
to be the prevailing opinion, that as Congress has engaged to make a
final decision of the controversy respecting the district called the
Grants, a partial compromise of the matter would be improper; as any
measures for the purpose, might alienate the affections of our most
zealous subjects in that quarter, and be attended with other dangerous
consequences. Besides, doubts exist whether the Legislature have
authority, by any act of theirs, to consent to such a dismemberment
of the State as would probably be insisted upon, on a compromise with
New Hampshire. I am, nevertheless, still persuaded, should Congress
determine the summit of the mountains to be the boundary between the
two States, this State (whatever our sentiments might be of the equity
of the decision) would, for the sake of peace, submit to it: and there
cannot be a doubt, but that New Hampshire would be perfectly satisfied
with the jurisdiction of so extensive and valuable a territory. I take
it for granted, that, whatever may be the decision, equitable measures
will be adopted for securing the property of individuals.

I congratulate you, most sincerely, on the promising prospects of
peace. I pray nothing may prevent the desirable event soon taking
place. Our friends from the city, and Long Island, anxiously wait for
the moment in which they may return to their homes. The expectations
of all are so much raised as to obstruct public business not a little.
Please to offer my best respects to Mrs. Hamilton, and believe me,

                                        With great respect and esteem,
                                        Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                        Geo. Clinton.

P. S. It is with great concern I mention, that since writing the
above, I am informed of the death of your relation, Colonel John Van
Rensselaer. He departed this life on Friday last. General Schuyler, who
was sent for when his recovery was despaired of, is to set out from
Albany on his return to this place on Wednesday next.

                                                                   G. C.

To Alexander Hamilton, Esq.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                       Newburgh, March 4, 1783.

Dear Sir:

I have received your favor of February, and thank you for the
information and observations it has conveyed to me. I shall always
think myself obliged by a free communication of sentiments, and have
often thought (but suppose I thought wrong, as it did not accord with
the practice of Congress), that the public interest might be benefited,
if the Commander-in-Chief of the army was let more into the political
and pecuniary state of our affairs than he is. Enterprises, and the
adoption of military and other arrangements that might be exceedingly
proper in some circumstances, would be altogether improper in others.
It follows, then, by fair deduction, that where there is a want of
information, there must be chance-medley; and a man may be upon the
brink of a precipice before he is aware of his danger, when a little
foreknowledge might enable him to avoid it. But this by the by.

The hint contained in your letter, and the knowledge I have derived
from the public gazettes, respecting the non-payment of taxes, contain
all the information I have received of the danger that stares us in the
face on account of our funds; and so far was I from conceiving that
our finances were in so deplorable a state, _at this time_, that I had
imbibed ideas from some source or other, that, with the prospect of a
loan from Holland, we should be able to rub along.

To you, who have seen the danger to which the army has been exposed
to a political dissolution for want of subsistence, and the unhappy
spirit of licentiousness which it imbibed by becoming, in one or two
instances, its own proveditors, no observations are necessary to
evince the fatal tendency of such a measure; but I shall give it as my
opinion, that it would at this day be productive of civil commotions
and end in blood. Unhappy situation this! God forbid we should be
involved in it.

The predicament in which I stand, as citizen and soldier, is as
critical and delicate as can well be conceived. It has been the subject
of many contemplative hours. The sufferings of a complaining army on
one hand, and the inability of Congress, and tardiness of the States on
the other, are the forebodings of evil, and may be productive of events
which are more to be deprecated than prevented: but I am not without
hope, if there is such a disposition shown as prudence and policy
dictate, to do justice, your apprehensions, in case of peace, are
greater than there is cause for. In this, however, I may be mistaken,
if those ideas which you have been informed are propagated in the army,
should be extensive, the source of which may be easily traced; as the
old leaven, _it is said_, for I have no proof of it, is again beginning
to work, under the mask of the most perfect dissimulation and apparent
cordiality.

Be these things as they may, I shall pursue the same steady line
of conduct which has governed me hitherto; fully convinced, that
the sensible and discerning part of the army cannot be unacquainted
(although I never took pains to inform them) of the services I have
rendered it on more occasions than one. This, and pursuing the
suggestions of your letter, which I am happy to find coincide with
my own practice for several months past, and which was the means of
directing the business of the army into the channel it now is, leave me
under no _great_ apprehension of its exceeding the bounds of reason and
moderation; notwithstanding the prevailing sentiment in the army is,
that the prospect of compensation for past services will terminate with
the war.

The just claims of the army ought, and it is to be hoped will, have
their weight with every sensible Legislature in the Union, if Congress
point to their demands; show (if the case is so) the reasonableness of
them; and the impracticability of complying without their aid. In any
other point of view, it would, in my opinion, be impolitic to introduce
the army on the tapis, lest it should excite jealousy and bring on
its concomitants. The States cannot, surely, be so devoid of common
sense, common honesty, and common policy, as to refuse their aid, on
a full, clear, and candid representation of facts from Congress; more
especially, if these should be enforced by members of their own body,
who might demonstrate what the inevitable consequences of failure must
lead to.

In my opinion it is a matter worthy of consideration, how far an
adjournment of Congress for a few months is advisable. The delegates,
in that case, if they are in unison themselves respecting the great
defects of their Constitution, may represent them fully and boldly to
their constituents. To me, who know nothing of the business which is
before Congress, nor of the arcanum, it appears that such a measure
would tend to promote the public weal: for it is clearly my opinion,
unless Congress have powers competent to all _general_ purposes, that
the distresses we have encountered, the expenses we have incurred, and
the blood we have spilt, in the course of an eight years’ war, will
avail us nothing.

The contents of your letter is known only to myself; and your prudence
will direct what should be done with this.

                                           With great esteem and regard,
                                           I am, dear Sir,
                                           Your most obedient servant,
                                           G. Washington.

To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton, Esq.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                   Philadelphia, March 5, 1783.

Sir:

I had the honor of writing to your Excellency lately on a very
confidential subject, and shall be anxious to know, as soon as
convenient, whether the letter got safe to hand.

The bearer, Shattuck, thinks he can point out means of apprehending
Wells and Knowlton, the two persons whom your Excellency was authorized
to have taken into custody. I have desired him to call upon you to
disclose the plan.

I will not trouble your Excellency with any observation on the
importance of getting hold of those persons.

The surmise that Mr. Arnold, a member of Congress, gave intelligence to
them of the design to take them, makes it peculiarly important.

                                     I have the honor to be,
                                     Your Excellency’s most ob’t serv’t,
                                     A. Hamilton.


To His Excellency General Washington.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                      Newburgh, March 12, 1783.

Dear Sir:

When I wrote to you last, we were in a state of tranquillity; but after
the arrival of a certain gentleman, who shall be nameless at present,
from Philadelphia, a storm very suddenly arose, with unfavorable
prognostics; which, though diverted for a moment, is not yet blown
over; nor is it in my power to point to the issue.

The papers which I send officially to Congress, will supersede the
necessity of my remarking on the tendency of them. The notification and
address, both, appeared at the same instant, on the day preceding the
intended meeting. The first of these I got hold of the same afternoon;
the other not till next morning.

There is something very mysterious in this business. It appears reports
have been propagated in Philadelphia, that dangerous combinations were
forming in the army; and this at a time when there was not a syllable
of the kind in agitation in camp. It also appears, that upon the
arrival in camp of the gentleman above alluded to, such sentiments as
these were immediately circulated: That it was universally expected the
army would not disband until they had obtained justice; that the public
creditors looked up to them for redress of their own grievances; would
afford them every aid, and even join them in the field, if necessary;
that some members of Congress wished the measure might take effect, in
order to compel the public, particularly the delinquent States, to do
justice; with many other suggestions of a similar nature.

From this, and a variety of other considerations, it is firmly believed
by _some_, the scheme was not only planned, but also digested and
matured, in Philadelphia;[19] but my opinion shall be suspended till
I have better ground to found one on. The matter was managed with
great art; for as soon as the minds of the officers were thought to be
prepared for the transaction, the anonymous invitations and addresses
to the officers were put in circulation through every State line in
the army. I was obliged, therefore, in order to arrest on the spot,
the feet that stood wavering on a tremendous precipice, to prevent the
officers from being taken by surprise, while the passions were all
inflamed, and to rescue them from plunging themselves into a gulf of
civil horror from which there might be no receding, to issue the order
of the eleventh.

This was done upon the principle that it is easier to divert from a
wrong, and point to a right path, than it is to recall the hasty and
fatal steps which have been already taken.

It is commonly supposed, if the officers had met agreeably to the
anonymous summons, with their feelings all alive, resolutions might
have been formed, the consequences of which may be more easily
conceived than described. Now they will have leisure to view the matter
more calmly, and will act more seriously. It is to be hoped they will
be induced to adopt more rational measures, and wait a while longer a
settlement of their accounts, the postponing of which appears to be the
most plausible, and almost the only article of which designing men can
make an improper use, by insinuating (which they really do) that it is
done with design that peace may take place, and prevent any adjustment
of accounts; which, say they, would inevitably be the case, if the
war was to cease to-morrow: or, supposing the best, you would have to
dance attendance at public offices, at great distances, perhaps, and
equally great expenses, to obtain a settlement, which would be highly
injurious, nay, ruinous to you. This is their language.

Let me beseech you, therefore, my good sir, to urge this matter
earnestly, and without further delay. The situation of these gentlemen,
I do verily believe, is distressing beyond description. It is affirmed
to me, that a large part of them have no better prospect before them
than a jail, if they are turned loose without liquidation of accounts,
and an assurance of that justice to which they are so worthily
entitled. To prevail on the delegates of those States, through whose
means these difficulties occur, it may, in my opinion, with propriety
be suggested to them, if any disastrous consequences should follow, by
reason of their delinquency, that they must be answerable to God and
their Country for the ineffable horrors which may be occasioned thereby.

                                             I am, dear Sir,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             G. Washington.

P. S. I have received your letter of the fifth, and have put that
matter in train which was mentioned in it.

                                                                   G. W.

I am this instant informed, that a second address to the officers,
distinguished No. 2, is thrown into circulation. The contents evidently
prove, that the author is in, or near, camp; and that the following
words, erased in the second page of this letter, ought not to have met
with this treatment, viz.--“By others, that it is the illegitimate
offspring of a person in the army.”


[19] The words, “By others, that it is the illegitimate offspring of
a person in the army,” which came in here, are obliterated in the
original, but were restored by Washington in the _postscript_.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                  Philadelphia, March 17, 1783.

Sir:

I am duly honored with your Excellency’s letters of the fourth and
twelfth instant. It is much to be regretted, though not to be wondered
at, that steps of so inflammatory a tendency have been taken in the
army. Your Excellency has, in my opinion, acted wisely. The best way
is, ever, not to attempt to stem a torrent, but to divert it.

I am happy to find you coincide in opinion with me on the conduct
proper to be observed by yourself. I am persuaded, more and more, it
is that which is most consistent with your own reputation and the
public safety. Our affairs wear a most serious aspect, as well foreign
as domestic. Before this gets to hand, your Excellency will probably
have seen the provisional articles between Great Britain and these
States. It might, at first appearance, be concluded, that these will be
the prelude to a general peace; but there are strong reasons to doubt
the truth of such a conclusion. Obstacles may arise from different
quarters; from the demands of Spain and Holland; from the hope, in
France, of greater acquisitions in the East; and, perhaps, still more
probably, from the insincerity and duplicity of Lord Shelburne, whose
politics, founded in the peculiarity of his situation, as well as in
the character of the man, may well be suspected of insidiousness.
I am really apprehensive, if peace does not take place, that the
negotiations will tend to sow distrust among the allies, and weaken the
force of the common league. We have, I fear, men among us, and men in
trust, who have a hankering after British connection. We have others
whose confidence in France savors of credulity. The intrigues of the
former, and the incautiousness of the latter, may be both, though in
different degrees, injurious to the American interests, and make it
difficult for prudent men to steer a proper course.

There are delicate circumstances, with respect to the late foreign
transactions, which I am not at liberty to reveal; but which, joined to
our internal weaknesses, disorders, follies, and prejudices, make this
country stand upon precarious ground.

Some use, perhaps, may be made of these ideas, to induce moderation in
the army. An opinion that their country does not stand upon a secure
footing, will operate upon the patriotism of the officers against
hazarding any domestic commotions.

When I make these observations, I cannot forbear adding, that if
no excesses take place, I shall not be sorry that ill-humors have
appeared. I shall not regret importunity, if temperate, from the army.

There are good intentions in the majority of Congress, but there is
not sufficient wisdom or decision. There are dangerous prejudices, in
the particular States, opposed to those measures which alone can give
stability and prosperity to the Union. There is a fatal opposition to
Continental views. Necessity alone can work a reform. But how produce
that necessity, how apply it, and how keep it within salutary bounds? I
fear we have been contending for a shadow.

The affair of accounts I considered as having been put on a
satisfactory footing. The particular States have been required to
settle till the first of August, ’80; and the Superintendent of Finance
has been directed to take measures for settling since that period. I
shall immediately see him on the subject.

We have had eight States and a half in favor of a commutation of the
half pay for an average of ten years’ purchase; that is, five years’
full pay instead of half pay for life, which, on a calculation of
annuities, is nearly an equivalent. I hope this will now shortly take
place.

We have made considerable progress in a plan to be recommended to the
several States for funding all the public debts, including those of
the army; which is certainly the only way to restore public credit,
and enable us to continue the war by borrowing abroad, if it should be
necessary, to continue it.

I omitted mentioning to your Excellency, that, from European
intelligence, there is great reason to believe, at all events, peace or
war, New-York will be evacuated in the spring. It will be a pity if any
domestic disturbances should change the plans of the British Court.

                                     I have the honor to be,
                                     With the greatest respect,
                                     Your Excellency’s most ob’t serv’t,
                                     A. Hamilton.

P. S. Your Excellency mentions, that it has been surmised, the plan
in agitation was formed in Philadelphia; that combinations have been
talked of between the public creditors and the army; and that members
of Congress had encouraged the idea. This is partly true. I have myself
urged, in Congress, the propriety of uniting the influence of the
public creditors, and the army, as a part of them, to prevail upon the
States to enter into their views. I have expressed the same sentiments
out of doors. Several other members of Congress have done the same. The
meaning, however, of all this, was simply, that Congress should adopt
such a plan as would embrace the relief of all the public creditors,
including the army; in order that the personal influence of some, the
connections of others, and a sense of justice to the army, as well as
the apprehension of ill consequences, might form a mass of influence,
in each State, in favor of the measures of Congress. In this view,
as I mentioned to your Excellency in a former letter, I thought the
discontents of the army might be turned to a good account. I am still
of opinion, that their earnest but respectful applications for redress
will have a good effect. As to any combination of _force_, it would
only be productive of the horrors of a civil war, might end in the ruin
of the country, and would certainly end in the ruin of the army.

                                                                   A. H.

To His Excellency General Washington.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                  Philadelphia, March 24, 1783.

Sir:

Your Excellency will, before this reaches you, have received a letter
from the Marquis De La Fayette, informing you, that the preliminaries
of peace between all the belligerent powers have been concluded. I
congratulate your Excellency on this happy conclusion of your labors.
It now only remains to make solid establishments within, to perpetuate
our Union, to prevent our being a ball in the hands of European powers,
banded against each other at their pleasure; in fine, to make our
independence truly a blessing. This, it is to be lamented, will be an
arduous work; for, to borrow a figure from mechanics, the centrifugal
is much stronger than the centripetal force in these States; the seeds
of disunion much more numerous than those of union.

I will add, that your Excellency’s exertions are as essential to
accomplish this end, as they have been to establish independence. I
will, upon a future occasion, open myself upon this subject.

Your conduct in the affair of the officers is highly pleasing here. The
measures of the army are such as I could have wished them, and will
add new lustre to their character, as well as strengthen the hands of
Congress.

                                     I am, with great truth and respect,
                                     Your Excellency’s
                                     Most obedient servant,
                                     A. Hamilton.

To his Excellency General Washington.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                  Philadelphia, March 25, 1783.

Sir:

I wrote to your Excellency a day or two ago by express. Since that,
a committee, appointed on the communications from you, have had a
meeting, and find themselves embarrassed. They have requested me to
communicate our embarrassments to you in confidence, and to ask your
private opinion. The army, by their resolutions, express an expectation
that Congress will not disband them previous to a settlement of
accounts, and the establishment of funds. Congress may resolve upon the
first, but the general opinion is, that they cannot constitutionally
declare the second. They have no right, by the Confederation, to
_demand_ funds; they can only recommend: and to determine, that the
army shall be continued in service till the States grant them, would
be to determine, that the whole present army shall be a standing
army during peace, unless the States comply with the requisition for
funds. This, it is supposed, would excite the alarms and jealousies of
the States, and increase, rather than lessen, the opposition to the
funding scheme. It is also observed, that the longer the army is kept
together, the more the payment of past dues is procrastinated; the
abilities of the States being exhausted for their immediate support,
and a new debt every day incurred. It is further suggested, that there
is danger in keeping the army together, in a state of inactivity, and
that a separation of the several lines would facilitate the settlement
of accounts, diminish present expense, and avoid the danger of union.
It is added, that the officers of each line, being on the spot, might,
by their own solicitations, and those of their friends, forward the
adoption of funds in the different States.

A proposition will be transmitted to you by Colonel Bland, in the form
of a resolution, to be adopted by Congress, framed upon the principles
of the foregoing reasoning.

Another proposition is contained in the following resolution:

“That the Commander-in-Chief be informed, it is the intention of
Congress to effect the settlement of the accounts of the respective
lines previous to their reduction; and that Congress are doing, and
will continue to do, every thing in their power towards procuring
satisfactory securities for what shall be found due on such settlement.”

The scope of this your Excellency will perceive without comment.

I am to request you will favor me with your sentiments on both the
propositions; and, in general, with your ideas of what had best be done
with reference to the expectation expressed by the officers; taking
into view the situation of Congress. On one side, the army expect they
will not be disbanded till accounts are settled and funds established.
On the other hand, they have no constitutional power of doing any thing
more than to recommend funds, and are persuaded that these will meet
with mountains of prejudice in some of the States.

A considerable progress has been made in a plan for funding the public
debts; and it is to be hoped it will ere long go forth to the States,
with every argument that can give it success.

                                                 I have the honor to be,
                                                 With sincere respect,
                                                 Your Excellency’s
                                                 Most obedient servant,
                                                 A. Hamilton.


To his Excellency General Washington.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                  Philadelphia, March 25, 1783.

Sir:

The inclosed I write more in a public than in a private capacity. Here
I write as a citizen, zealous for the true happiness of this country;
as a soldier who feels what is due to an army which has suffered every
thing, and done much for the safety of America.

I sincerely wish _ingratitude_ was not so natural to the human heart
as it is. I sincerely wish there were no seeds of it in those who
direct the councils of the United States. But while I urge the army to
moderation, and advise your Excellency to take the direction of their
discontents, and endeavor to confine them within the bounds of duty,
I cannot, as an honest man, conceal from you, that I am afraid their
distrusts have too much foundation. Republican jealousy has in it a
principle of hostility to an army, whatever be their merits, whatever
be their claims to the gratitude of the community. It acknowledges
their services with unwillingness, and rewards them with reluctance.
I see this temper, though smothered with great care, involuntarily
breaking out upon too many occasions. I often feel a mortification,
which it would be impolitic to express, that sets my passions at
variance with my reason. Too many, I perceive, if they could do it with
safety or color, would be glad to elude the just pretensions of the
army. I hope this is not the prevailing disposition.

But supposing the country ungrateful, what can the army do? It must
submit to its hard fate. To seek redress by its arms would end in its
ruin. The army would moulder by its own weight, and for want of the
means of keeping together: the soldiery would abandon their officers:
there would be no chance of success, without having recourse to means
that would reverse our revolution. I make these observations, not that
I imagine your Excellency can want motives to continue your influence
in the path of moderation; but merely to show why I cannot, myself,
enter into the views of coercion which some gentlemen entertain. For I
confess, could force avail, I should almost wish to see it employed.
I have an indifferent opinion of the honesty of this country, and ill
forebodings as to its future system.

Your Excellency will perceive I have written with sensations of
chagrin, and will make allowance for coloring: but the general picture
is too true. God send us all more wisdom.

                                        I am, with very sincere respect,
                                        Your Excellency’s
                                        Obedient servant,
                                        A. Hamilton.

To his Excellency General Washington.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                      Newburgh, March 31, 1783.

Dear Sir:

I have duly received your favors of the seventeenth and twenty-fourth
ultimo. I rejoice, most exceedingly, that there is an end to our
warfare; and that such a field is opening to our view, as will, with
wisdom to direct the cultivation of it, make us a great, a respectable,
and happy people: but it must be improved by other means than State
politics and unreasonable jealousies and prejudices; or (it requires
not the second sight to see that) we shall be instruments in the hands
of our enemies, and those European powers who may be jealous of our
greatness in union, to dissolve the Confederation. But to attain this,
although the way seems extremely plain, is not so easy.

My wish to see the union of these States established upon liberal and
permanent principles, and inclination to contribute my mite in pointing
out the defects of the present constitution, are equally great. All
my private letters have teemed with these sentiments; and whenever
this topic has been the subject of conversation, I have endeavored to
diffuse and enforce them; but how far any further essay, by me, might
be productive of the wished for end, or appear to arrogate more than
belongs to me, depends so much upon popular opinion, and the temper
and disposition of people, that it is not easy to decide. I shall be
obliged to you, however, for the thoughts which you have promised me on
this subject, and as soon as you can make it convenient.

No man in the United States, is, or can be, more deeply impressed with
the necessity of a reform in our present Confederation, than myself; no
man, perhaps, has felt the bad effects of it more sensibly: for, to the
defects thereof; and want of powers in Congress, may justly be ascribed
the prolongation of the war, and, consequently, the expenses occasioned
by it. More than half the perplexities I have experienced in the course
of my command, and almost the whole of the difficulties and distress of
the army, have their origin here: but still, the prejudices of some,
the designs of others, and the mere machinery of the majority, make
address and management necessary, to give weight to opinions which are
to combat the doctrines of these different classes of men, in the field
of politics.

I would have been more full on this subject, but the bearer (in the
clothing department) is waiting. I wish you may understand what I have
written.

                                             I am, dear Sir,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             G. Washington.

To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                       Newburgh, April 4, 1783.

Dear Sir:

The same post which gave me your two letters of the twenty-fifth of
March, handed me one from Colonel Bland on the same point.

Observing that both have been written at the desire of a committee
of which you are both members, I have made a very full reply to
their subject in my letter which is addressed to Colonel Bland; and,
supposing it unnecessary to enter into a complete detail to both, I
must beg leave to refer you to Colonel Bland’s (a sight of which I
have desired him to give you), for a full explanation of my ideas and
sentiments.

I read your private letter of the twenty-fifth with pain, and
contemplated the picture it had drawn with astonishment and horror:
but I will yet hope for the best. The idea of redress, by force, is
too chimerical to have had a place in the imagination of any serious
mind in this army; but there is no telling what unhappy disturbances
may result from distress, and distrust of justice: and as the fears
and jealousies of the army are alive, I hope no resolution will be
come to, for disbanding or separating the lines, till the accounts
are liquidated. You may rely upon it, sir, that unhappy consequences
would follow the attempt. The suspicions of the officers are afloat,
notwithstanding the resolutions which have passed on both sides. Any
act, therefore, which can be construed into an attempt to separate them
before the accounts are settled, will convey the most unfavorable ideas
of the rectitude of Congress: whether well or ill founded, matters not;
the consequences will be the same.

I will now, in strict confidence, mention a matter which may be
useful for you to be informed of. It is, that some men (and leading
ones, too) in this army, are beginning to entertain suspicions that
Congress, or some members of it, regardless of the past sufferings
and present distress, maugre the justice which is due to them, and
the returns which a grateful people should make to men who certainly
have contributed, more than any other class, to the establishment
of Independency, are to be made use of as mere puppets to establish
Continental funds; and that, rather than not succeed in this measure,
or weaken their ground, they would make a sacrifice of the army and all
its interests.

I have two reasons for mentioning this matter to you: the one is, that
the army (considering the irritable state it is in, its sufferings,
and composition) is a dangerous instrument to play with; the other,
that every possible means, consistent with their own views (which
certainly are moderate), should be essayed to get it disbanded without
delay. I might add a third: it is, that the Financier is suspected to
be at the bottom of this scheme. If sentiments of this sort should
become general, their operation will be opposed to this plan, at the
same time that it would increase the present discontents. Upon the
whole, disband the army as soon as possible, but consult the wishes of
it, which really are moderate in the mode, and perfectly compatible
with the honor, dignity, and justice, which is due from the country to
it.

                                   I am, with great esteem and regard,
                                   Dear Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                   G. Washington.

To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                                         April 11, 1783.

Sir:

I have received your Excellency’s letters of the thirty-first of March,
and fourth of April; the last to-day. The one to Colonel Bland, as
member of the committee, has been read in committee confidentially,
and gave great satisfaction. The idea of not attempting to separate
the army before the settlement of accounts, corresponds with my
proposition. That of endeavoring to let them have some pay, had
also appeared to me indispensable. The expectations of the army, as
represented by your Excellency, are moderation itself. To-morrow we
confer with the Superintendent of Finance on the subject of money.
There will be difficulty, but not, we hope, insurmountable.

I thank your Excellency for the hints you are so obliging as to give
me in your private letter. I do not wonder at the suspicions that
have been infused; nor should I be surprised to hear, that I have
been pointed out as one of the persons concerned in playing the game
described. But facts must speak for themselves. The gentlemen who were
here from the army, General McDougal, who is still here, will be able
to give a true account of those who have supported the just claims of
the army, and of those who have endeavored to elude them.

There are two classes of men, sir, in Congress, of very different
views: one attached to State, the other to Continental politics. The
last have been strenuous advocates for funding the public debt upon
solid securities; the former have given every opposition in their
power; and have only been dragged into the measures which are now near
being adopted, by the clamors of the army and other public creditors.

The advocates for Continental funds, have blended the interests of
the army with other creditors, from a conviction, that no funds, for
partial purposes, will go through those States to whose citizens the
United States are largely indebted; or if they should be carried
through, from impressions of the moment, would have the necessary
stability: for the influence of those unprovided for, would always
militate against a provision for others, in exclusion of them. It is in
vain to tell men, who have parted with a large part of their property
on the public faith, that the services of the army are entitled to a
preference: they would reason from their interest and their feelings:
these would tell them, that they had as great a title as any other
class of the community to public justice; and that while this was
denied to them, it would be unreasonable to make them bear their part
of a burthen for the benefit of others. This is the way they would
reason; and as their influence in some of the States was considerable,
they would have been able to prevent any partial provision.

But the question was not merely how to do justice to the creditors, but
how to restore public credit. Taxation, in this country, it was found,
would not supply a sixth part of the public necessities. The loans
in Europe were far short of the balance, and the prospect every day
diminishing; the Court of France telling us, in plain terms, she could
not even do as much as she had done; individuals in Holland, and every
where else, refusing to part with their money, on the precarious tenure
of the mere faith of this country, without any pledge for the payment
either of principal or interest.

In this situation what was to be done? It was essential to our cause,
that vigorous efforts should be made to restore public credit; it was
necessary to combine all the motives to this end, that could operate
upon different descriptions of persons in the different States: the
necessities and discontents of the army presented themselves as a
powerful engine.

But, sir, these gentlemen would be puzzled to support their
insinuations by a single fact. It was, indeed, proposed to appropriate
the intended impost on trade to the army debt; and, what was
extraordinary, by gentlemen who had expressed their dislike to the
principle of the fund. I acknowledge I was one that opposed this, for
the reasons already assigned, and for these additional ones: _That_ was
the fund on which we most counted; to obtain further loans in Europe,
it was necessary we should have a fund sufficient to pay the interest
of what had been borrowed, and what was to be borrowed. The truth was,
these people, in this instance, wanted to play off the army against the
funding system.

As to Mr. Morris, I will give your Excellency a true explanation of
his conduct. He had been for some time pressing Congress to endeavor
to obtain funds, and had found a great backwardness in the business.
He found the taxes unproductive in the different States; he found the
loans, in Europe, making a very slow progress; he found himself pressed
on all hands for supplies; he found himself, in short, reduced to this
alternative, either of making engagements which he could not fulfil,
or declaring his resignation in case funds were not established by a
given time. Had he followed the first course, the bubble must soon
have burst; he must have sacrificed his credit and his character: and
public credit, already in a ruinous condition, would have lost its last
support.

He wisely judged it better to resign: this might increase the
embarrassments of the moment; but the necessity of the case, it was to
be hoped, would produce the proper measures; and he might then resume
the direction of the machine with advantage and success.

He also had some hope that his resignation would prove a stimulus to
Congress.

He was, however, ill advised in the publication of his letters of
resignation. This was an imprudent step, and has given a handle to his
personal enemies, who, by playing upon the passions of others, have
drawn some well-meaning men into the cry against him. But Mr. Morris
certainly deserves a great deal from his country. I believe no man in
this country, but himself, could have kept the money machine agoing
during the period he has been in office. From every thing that appears,
his administration has been upright as well as able.

The truth is, the old leaven of Deane and Lee, is, at this day, working
against Mr. Morris. He happened, in that dispute, to have been on the
side of Deane; and certain men can never forgive him. A man whom I once
esteemed, and whom I will rather suppose _duped_ than wicked, is the
second actor in this business.

The matter, with respect to the army, which has occasioned most
altercation in Congress, and most dissatisfaction in the army, has
been the half pay. The opinions on this head have been two: one party
was for referring the several lines to their States, to make such
commutation as they should think proper; the other, for making the
commutation by Congress, and funding it on Continental security. I was
of this last opinion; and so were all those who will be represented as
having made use of the army as puppets. Our principal reasons were,
_Firstly_: By referring the lines to their respective States, those
which were opposed to the half pay, would have taken advantage of
the officers’ necessities, to make the commutation far short of an
equivalent. _Secondly_: The inequality which would have arisen in the
different States when the officers came to compare (as has happened in
other cases), would have been a new source of discontent. _Thirdly_:
Such a reference was a continuance of the old wretched State system,
by which the ties between Congress and the army have been nearly
dissolved; by which the resources of the States have been diverted from
the common treasury, and wasted; a system which your Excellency has
often justly reprobated.

I have gone to these details, to give you a just idea of the parties
in Congress. I assure you, upon my honor, sir, I have given you a
candid state of facts, to the best of my judgment. The men against
whom the suspicions you mention must be directed, are, in general,
the most sensible, the most liberal, the most independent, and
the most respectable characters in our body, as well as the most
unequivocal friends to the army. In a word, they are the men who think
continentally.

                                        I have the honor to be,
                                        With sincere respect and esteem,
                                        Your Excellency’s
                                        Most obedient servant,
                                        A. Hamilton.

P. S. I am chairman of a committee for peace arrangements. We shall
ask your Excellency’s opinion at large, on a proper military peace
establishment. I will just hint to your Excellency, that our prejudices
will make us wish to keep up as few troops as possible.

We this moment learn, an officer is arrived from Sir Guy Carleton with
dispatches; probably official accounts of peace.

                                                                   A. H.

To His Excellency General Washington.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                  Philadelphia, April 15, 1783.

Sir:

There are two resolutions passed relative to the restoration of the
British prisoners, and to making arrangements for the surrender of the
posts in the possession of the British troops; the first of which
is to be transacted by you in conjunction with the Secretary at War;
the latter by yourself alone. I will explain to you some doubts which
have arisen in Congress, with regard to the true construction of the
provisional treaty; which may be of use to you in transacting the
business above-mentioned.

The sixth article declares, that there shall be no future
confiscations, etc., after the _ratification of the Treaty in America_;
and the seventh article makes the surrender of prisoners, evacuation of
posts, cessation of hostilities, etc., to depend on that event, to wit,
_the ratification of the treaty in America_.

Now the doubt is, whether _the treaty_ means the provisional treaty
_already concluded_, or the _definitive_ treaty _to be concluded_. The
last construction is most agreeable to the letter of the provisional
articles; the former, most agreeable to the usual practice of nations:
for hostilities commonly cease on the ratification of the preliminary
treaty.

There is a great diversity of opinion in Congress. It will be, in my
opinion, advisable, at the same time that we do not communicate our
doubts to the British, to extract their sense of the matter from them.

This may be done by asking them, at what periods they are willing to
stipulate the surrender of posts; at the same time that they are asked,
in what manner it will be the most convenient to them to receive the
prisoners.

If they postpone the evacuation of the different posts to the
definitive treaty, we shall then be justified in doing the same
with respect to prisoners. The question will then arise, Whether,
on principles of humanity, economy, and liberality, we ought not to
restore the prisoners, at all events, without delay? Much may be
said on both sides. I doubt the expedience of a total restoration of
prisoners, till they are willing to fix the epochs at which they will
take leave of us. It will add considerably to their strength; and
accidents, though improbable, may happen.

I confess, however, I am not clear in my opinion.

                                                 I have the honor to be,
                                                 Your Excellency’s
                                                 Most obedient servant,
                                                 A. Hamilton.

P.S. The provisional or preliminary treaty, is ratified by us--for the
greater caution.

                                                                   A. H.

To His Excellency General Washington.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                      Newborgh, April 16, 1783.

Dear Sir:

My last letter to you was written in a hurry, when I was fatigued by
the more public, yet confidential, letter, which (with several others)
accompanied it. Possibly, I did not, on that occasion, express myself
(in what I intended as a hint) with so much perspicuity as I ought:
possibly, too, what I then dropped, might have conveyed more than
I intended; for I do not, at this time, recollect the force of my
expression.

My meaning, however, was only to inform, that there were different
sentiments in the army, as well as in Congress, respecting Continental
and State funds: some wishing to be thrown upon their respective
States, rather than the Continent at large, for payment; and that,
if an idea should prevail, generally, that Congress, or part of its
members, or ministers, bent upon the latter, should _delay_ doing
them justice, or _hazard_ it in pursuit of their favorite object; it
might create such divisions in the army, as would weaken, rather than
strengthen, the hands of those who were disposed to support Continental
measures; and might _tend_ to defeat the end they themselves had in
view by endeavoring to involve the army.

For these reasons I said, or meant to say, the army was a dangerous
engine to work with, as it might be made to cut both ways; and,
considering the sufferings of it, would, more than probably, throw its
weight into that scale which seemed most likely to preponderate towards
its immediate relief, without looking forward (under the pressure of
present wants) to future consequences with the eyes of politicians. In
this light, also, I meant to apply my observations to Mr. Morris, to
whom, or rather to Mr. G---- M----, is ascribed, in a great degree, the
groundwork of the superstructure which was intended to be raised in the
army by the anonymous addresses.

That no man can be more opposed to State funds and local prejudices
than myself, the whole tenor of my conduct has been one continual
evidence of. No man, perhaps, has had better opportunities to _see_,
and to _feel_, the pernicious tendency of the latter than I have; and
I endeavor (I hope not altogether ineffectually) to inculcate them
upon the officers of the army, upon all proper occasions: but their
feelings are to be attended to and soothed; and they assured, that if
Continental funds cannot be established, they will be recommended to
their respective States for payment. Justice must be done them.

I should do injustice to reports, and what I believe to be the opinion
of the army, were I not to inform you, that they consider you as a
friend, zealous to serve them, and one who has espoused their interests
in Congress, upon every proper occasion. It is to be wished, as I
observed in my letter to Colonel Bland, that Congress would send
a committee to the army with plenipotentiary powers. The matters
requested of me, in your letter of the    , as chairman of a committee,
and many other things, might then be brought to a close, with more
despatch, and in a happier manner, than it is likely they will be by
an intercourse of letters at the distance of one hundred and fifty
miles: which takes _our_ Expresses, a week, _at least_, to go and come.
At this moment, being without any instructions from Congress, I am
under great embarrassment with respect to the soldiers for the war;
and shall be obliged, more than probably, from the necessity of the
case, to exercise my own judgment without waiting for orders, as to the
discharge of them. If I should adopt measures which events may approve,
all will be well. If otherwise, Why and by what authority did you do so?

How far a _strong_ recommendation from Congress, to observe _all_
the Articles of Peace, as well as the    , may imply a suspicion of good
faith in the people of this country, I pretend not to judge: but I am
much mistaken, if something of the kind will not be found wanting; as
I already perceive a disposition to carp at, and to elude, such parts
of the treaty as affect their different interests; although you do not
find a man, who, when pushed, will not acknowledge, that, upon the
_whole_, it is a more advantageous Peace than we could possibly have
expected.

                                           I am, dear Sir,
                                           With great esteem and regard,
                                           Your most obedient servant,
                                           G. Washington.

To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                      Newburgh, April 22, 1783.

Dear Sir:

I did not receive your letter of the fifteenth, till after my return
from Ringwood, where I had a meeting with the Secretary at War, for
the purpose of making arrangements for the release of our prisoners,
agreeably to the resolve of Congress of the fifteenth instant.

Finding a diversity of opinion respecting the treaty, and the line
of conduct we ought to observe with the prisoners, I requested, in
precise terms, to know from General Lincoln (before I entered on the
business), whether we were to exercise our own judgment with respect
to the _time_, as well as the _mode_, of releasing them; or were to be
confined to the latter: being informed that we had no option in the
first, Congress wishing to be eased of the expense as soon as possible,
I acted _solely_ on that ground.

At the same time, I scruple not to confess to you, that if this measure
was not dictated by necessity, it is, in my opinion, an impolitic
one; as we place ourselves in the power of the British, before the
treaty is definitive. The manner in which Peace was first announced,
and the subsequent declarations of it, have led the country and army
into a belief, that it was final. The ratification of the preliminary
articles, on the third of February, so far confirmed this, that one
consequence resulting from it, is, the soldiers for the war, conceive
the term of their services has actually expired; and I believe it is
not in the power of Congress, or their officers, to hold them much,
if any, longer; for we are obliged, at this moment, to increase our
guards, to prevent rioting, and the insults which the officers meet
with, in attempting to hold them to their duty. The proportion of
these men, amount to seven-elevenths of this army: these we shall lose
at the moment the British army will receive, by their prisoners, an
augmentation of five or six thousand men.

It is not for me to investigate the causes which induced this measure;
nor the policy of those letters (from authority) which gave the _ton_
to the present sentiment; but since they have been adopted, we ought,
in my opinion, to put a good face upon matters; and, by a liberal
conduct throughout, on our part (freed from appearances of distrust)
try if we cannot excite similar dispositions on theirs. Indeed,
circumstanced as things _now_ are, I wish, most fervently, that all
the troops which are not retained for a Peace Establishment, were
to be discharged immediately, or such of them, at least, as do not
incline to await the settlement of their accounts. If they continue
here, their claims, I can plainly perceive, will increase; and our
perplexities multiply. A petition is this moment handed to me, from the
non-commissioned officers of the Connecticut line, soliciting half pay.
It is well drawn, I am told, but I did not read it. I sent it back,
without appearing to understand the contents, because it did not come
through the channel of their officers. This may be followed by others:
and I mention it, to show the necessity, the absolute necessity, of
discharging the _Warsmen_ as soon as possible.

I have taken much pains to support Mr. Morris’s administration in the
army; and, in proportion to its numbers, I believe he had not more
friends any where: but if he will neither adopt the mode which has
been suggested, point out any other, nor show cause why the first is
either impracticable or impolitic (I have heard he objects to it),
they will certainly attribute their disappointment to a lukewarmness
in him, or some design incompatible with their interests. And here, my
dear Colonel Hamilton, let me assure you, that it would not be more
difficult to still the raging billows in a tempestuous gale, than to
convince the officers of this army, of the justice, or policy, of
paying men, in civil offices, full wages, when _they_ cannot obtain a
sixtieth part of their dues.

I am not unapprised of the arguments which are made use of, upon this
occasion, to discriminate the cases: but they really are futile; and
may be summed up in this: that though both are contending for the same
rights, and expect equal benefits, yet, both cannot submit to the same
inconveniences to obtain them: otherwise, to adopt the language of
simplicity and plainness, a ration of salt pork, with or without pease,
as the case often is, would support the one as well as the other; and,
in such a struggle as ours, would, in my opinion, be alike honorable in
both.

My anxiety to get home, increases with the prospect of it. But when
is it to happen? I have not heard that Congress have yet had under
consideration, the lands, and other gratuities, which, at different
periods of the war, have been promised to the army. Do not these things
evince the necessity of a committee’s repairing to camp, in order to
arrange and adjust matters without spending time in a tedious exchange
of letters? Unless something of this kind is adopted, business will
be delayed, and expenses accumulated; or the army will break up in
disorder, go home enraged, complaining of injustice, and committing
enormities on the innocent inhabitants in every direction.

I write to you unreservedly. If, therefore, contrary to my
apprehension, all these matters are in a proper train, and Mr. Morris
has devised means to give the army three months’ pay, you will, I am
persuaded, excuse my precipitancy and solicitude, by ascribing it to
an earnest wish to see the war happily and honorably terminated; to
my anxious desire of enjoying some repose; and the necessity of my
paying a little attention to my private concerns, which have suffered
considerably in eight years’ absence.

M’Henry, expressing, in a letter I have lately received from him, a
wish to be appointed official Secretary to the Court of Versailles, or
London, I have, by this opportunity, written to Mr. Livingston, and Mr.
Madison, speaking of him in warm terms; and wish him success with all
my heart.

                                           I am, dear Sir,
                                           With great esteem and regard,
                                           Your most obedient servant,
                                           G. Washington.

Colonel Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO GOV. CLINTON.


                                    Philadelphia, May 14, 1783.

Sir:

The President of Congress will of course have transmitted to your
Excellency, the plan lately adopted by Congress for funding the public
debt. This plan was framed to accommodate it to the objections of
some of the States; but this spirit of accommodation will only serve
to render it less efficient, without making it more palatable. The
opposition of the State of Rhode Island, for instance, is chiefly
founded upon these two considerations: the merchants are opposed to any
revenue from trade; and the State, depending almost wholly on commerce,
wants to have credit for the amount of the duties.

Persuaded that the plan now proposed will have little more chance of
success than a better one; and that, if agreed to by all the States,
it will, in a great measure, fail in the execution, it received my
negative. My principal objections were,

_Firstly_: That it does not designate the funds (except the impost)
on which the whole interest is to arise; and by which (selecting
the capital articles of visible property) the collection would have
been easy, the funds productive, and necessarily increasing with the
increase of the country.

_Secondly_: That the duration of the funds is not coextensive with
the debt, but limited to twenty-five years; though there is a moral
certainty, that, in that period, the principal will not, by the present
provision, be fairly extinguished.

_Thirdly_: That the nomination and appointment of the collectors of
the revenue are to reside in each State, instead of, at least the
nomination, being in the United States; the consequence of which will
be, that those States which have little interest in the funds, by
having a small share of the public debt due to their own citizens, will
take care to appoint such persons as are least likely to collect the
revenue.

The evils resulting from these defects, will be, that in many instances
the objects of the revenues will be improperly chosen, and will consist
of a multitude of little articles, which will, on experiment, prove
insufficient; that for want of a vigorous collection in each State, the
revenue will be unproductive in many, and will fall chiefly upon those
States which are governed by most liberal principles; that for want of
an adequate security, the evidences of the public debt, will not be
transferable for any thing like their value; that this not admitting
an incorporation of the creditors in the nature of Banks, will deprive
the public of the benefit of an increased circulation, and of course
will disable the people from paying the taxes for want of a sufficient
medium.

I shall be happy to be mistaken in my apprehensions; but the experiment
must determine.

I hope our State will consent to the plan proposed; because it is her
interest, at all events, to promote the payment of the public debt on
Continental funds (independent of the general considerations of union
and propriety).

I am much mistaken if the debts due from the United States to the
citizens of the State of New-York, do not considerably exceed its
proportion of the necessary funds: of course it has an immediate
interest that there should be a Continental provision for them. But
there are superior motives that ought to operate in every State; the
obligations of national faith, honor, and reputation.

Individuals have been already too long sacrificed to public
convenience. It will be shocking, and indeed an eternal reproach to
this country, if we begin the peaceable enjoyment of our independence
by a violation of all the principles of honesty and true policy.

It is worthy of remark, that at least four-fifths of the domestic debt,
are due to the citizens of the States (from Pennsylvania inclusively)
northward.

                                            I have the honor to be, Sir,
                                            Your most obedient servant,
                                            A. Hamilton.

P. S. It is particularly interesting that the State should have a
representation here. Not only many matters are depending which require
a full representation in Congress (and there is now a thin one), but
those matters are of a nature so particularly interesting to our State,
that we ought not to be without a voice in them. I wish two other
gentlemen of the delegation may appear as soon as possible; for it
would be very injurious for me to remain much longer here. Having no
future views in public life, I owe it to myself, without delay to enter
upon the care of my private concerns in earnest.

                                                                   A. H.

To His Excellency Governor Clinton.




HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR CLINTON.


                                    Philadelphia, June 1, 1783.

Sir:

In my last letter to your Excellency, I took occasion to mention,
that it was of great importance to the State, at this time, to have a
representation here, as points in which, by its present situation, it
is particularly interested, are daily, and will be daily, agitated.

It is also of importance, at this moment, to the United States; (not
only from general considerations, but) because we have a very thin
representation in Congress, and are frequently unable to transact any
of those matters which require nine States. I wish your Excellency
would urge a couple of gentlemen to come on, as it becomes highly
inconvenient to me to remain here, and as I have staid the full time to
be expected.

I observe, with great regret, the intemperate proceedings among the
people in different parts of the State, in violation of a treaty, the
faithful observance of which so deeply interests the United States.

Surely, the State of New-York, with its capital and its frontier posts
(on which its important fur trade depends) in the hands of the British
troops, ought to take care that nothing is done to furnish a pretext
on the other side, even for delaying, much less for refusing, the
execution of the treaty. We may imagine that the situation of Great
Britain puts her under a necessity, at all events, of fulfilling her
engagements, and cultivating the good will of this country.

This is, no doubt, her true policy; but when we feel that passion makes
us depart from the dictates of reason; when we have seen that passion
has had so much influence in the conduct of the British Councils,
in the whole course of the war; when we recollect, that those who
govern them, are men like ourselves, and alike subject to passions and
resentments; when we reflect, also, that all the great men in England
are not united in the liberal scheme of policy with respect to this
country, and that in the anarchy which prevails, there is no knowing to
whom the reins of government may be committed; when we recollect how
little in a condition we are, to enforce a compliance with our claims;
we ought, certainly, to be cautious in what manner we act, especially
when we, in particular, have so much at stake; and should not openly
provoke a breach of faith on the other side, by setting the example.

An important distinction is not sufficiently attended to. The fifth
article is recommendatory; the sixth positive. There is no option, on
the part of the particular States, as to any future confiscations,
prosecutions, or injuries of any kind, to person, liberty, or property,
on account of any thing done in the war. It is matter of discretion
in the States, whether they will comply with the recommendations
contained in the fifth article; but no part of the sixth can be
departed from by them, without a direct breach of public faith, and
of the Confederation. The power of making treaties is exclusively
lodged in Congress. That power includes whatever is essential to the
termination of the war, and to the preservation of the general safety.
Indemnity to individuals in similar cases, is a _usual_ stipulation in
treaties of peace, of which many precedents are to be produced.

Should it be said, that the associations of the people, without legal
authority, do not amount to a breach of the public faith; the answer
is, If the government does not repress them, and prevent their having
effect, it is as much a breach, as a formal refusal to comply on its
part. In the eye of a foreign nation, if our engagements are broken,
it is of no moment whether it is for the want of good intention in the
government, or for want of power to restrain its subjects.

Suppose a violence committed by an American vessel on the vessel of
another nation, upon the high seas, and after complaint made there is
no redress given: Is not this a hostility against the injured nation
which will justify reprisals?

But if I am not misinformed, there are violations going on in form of
law. I am told that indictments continue to be brought under the former
confiscation laws: A palpable infraction, if true, of the sixth article
of the treaty; to which an immediate stop ought, no doubt, to be put.

It has been said by some men, that the operation of this treaty is
suspended till the definitive treaty: A plain subterfuge. Whatever
is clearly expressed in the provisional or preliminary treaty, is as
binding from the moment it is made, as the definitive treaty; which, in
fact, only developes, explains and fixes, more precisely, what may have
been too generally expressed in the former.

Suppose the British should now send away, not only the negroes, but
all other property, and all the public records in their possession
belonging to us, on the pretence above stated: should we not justly
accuse them with breaking faith? Is this not already done in the case
of the negroes who have been carried away, though founded upon a very
different principle, a doubtful construction of the treaty, not a
denial of its immediate operation?

In fine, Is it our interest to advance this doctrine, and to
countenance the position, that nothing is binding till the definitive
treaty, when there are examples of _years_ intervening between the
preliminary and definitive treaties?

Sir Guy Carleton, in his correspondence, has appeared to consider the
treaty as immediately obligatory: and it has been the policy which I
have pursued, to promote the same idea.

I am not, indeed, apprehensive of a renewal of the war, for peace
is necessary to Great Britain. I think it also most probable, her
disposition to conciliate this country will outweigh the resentments
which a breach of our engagements is calculated to inspire. But with a
treaty which has exceeded the hopes of the most sanguine; which, in the
articles of boundary and the fisheries, is even better than we asked;
circumstanced, too, as this country is, with respect to the means of
making war; I think it the height of imprudence to run any risk. Great
Britain, without recommencing hostilities, may evade parts of the
treaty. She may keep possession of the frontier posts; she may obstruct
the free enjoyment of the fisheries; she may be indisposed to such
extensive concessions, in matters of commerce, as it is our interest
to aim at. In all this she would find no opposition from any foreign
power: and we are not in a condition to oblige her to any thing. If we
imagine that France, obviously embarrassed herself, in her finances,
would renew the war to oblige Great Britain to the restoration of
frontier posts; or to a compliance with the stipulations respecting
the fisheries (especially after a manifest breach of the treaty on
our part); we speculate much at random. Observations might be made
on the last article, which would prove, that it is not the policy of
France to support our interest there. Are we prepared, for the mere
gratification of our resentments, to put those great national objects
to the hazard; to leave our western frontier in a state of insecurity;
to relinquish the fur trade; and to abridge our pretensions to the
fisheries? Do we think national character so light a thing, as to be
willing to sacrifice the public faith to individual animosity? Let
the case be fairly stated: Great Britain and America, two independent
nations, at war. The former in possession of considerable posts and
districts of territory, belonging to the latter; and also of the means
of obstructing certain commercial advantages in which it is deeply
interested.

But it is not uncommon, in treaties of peace, for the _uti possidetis_
to take place. Great Britain, however, in the present instance,
stipulates to restore all our posts and territories in her possession.
She even adds an extent, not within our original claims, more than a
compensation for a small part ceded in another quarter. She agrees to
re-admit us to a participation in the fisheries. What equivalent do we
give for this? Congress are to recommend the restoration of property
to those who have adhered to her; and expressly engage, that no future
injury shall be done them, in person, liberty, or property. This is
the sole condition, on our part, where there is not an immediate
reciprocity (the recovery of debts, and liberation of prisoners,
being mutual; the former, indeed, only declaring what the rights of
private faith, which all civilized nations hold sacred, would have
declared without it), and stands as the single equivalent for all the
restitutions and concessions to be made by Great Britain. Will it be
honest in us to violate this condition, or will it be prudent to put it
in competition with all the important matters to be performed on the
other side?

Will foreign nations be willing to undertake any thing with us, or for
us, when they find that the nature of our governments will allow no
dependence to be placed upon our engagements? I have omitted saying
any thing of the impolicy of inducing, by our severity, a great number
of useful citizens, whose situations do not make them a proper object
of resentment, to abandon the country, to form settlements that will
hereafter become our rivals, animated with a hatred to us, which will
descend to their posterity. Nothing, however, can be more unwise than
to contribute, as we are doing, to people the shores and wilderness of
Nova Scotia; a colony which, by its position, will become a competitor
with us, among other things, in that branch of commerce on which our
navigation and navy will essentially depend: I mean the fisheries; in
which, I have no doubt, the State of New-York will, hereafter, have a
considerable share.

To your Excellency I freely deliver my sentiments, because I
am persuaded you cannot be a stranger to the force of these
considerations. I fear not even to hazard them to the justice and good
sense of those whom I have the honor to represent. I esteem it my duty
to do it, because the question is important to the interests of the
State, in its relation to the United States.

Those who consult only their passions, might choose to construe what
I say, as too favorable to a set of men who have been the enemies of
the public liberty: but those for whose esteem I am most concerned,
will acquit me of any personal considerations; and will perceive that I
only urge the cause of national honor, safety, and advantage. We have
assumed an independent station: we ought to feel, and to act, in a
manner consistent with the dignity of that station.

I anxiously wish to see every prudent measure taken to prevent those
combinations which will certainly disgrace us, if they do not involve
us in other calamities. Whatever distinctions are judged necessary to
be made, in the cases of those persons who have been in opposition
to the common cause, let them be made by legal authority, on a fair
construction of the treaty, consistent with national faith and national
honor.

Your Excellency will have been informed, that Congress have instructed
General Washington to garrison the frontier posts, when surrendered,
with the three years’ Continental troops. This is more for the interest
of the State, than to have them garrisoned at its particular expense:
and I should wish that permanent provision might be made on the same
principle. I wait to see whether any Continental peace establishment
for garrisons, etc., will take place, before I engage the consent of
Congress to a separate provision.

I cannot forbear adding a word on the subject of money. The only
reliance we now have for redeeming a large anticipation on the public
credit, already made, and making, for the benefit of the army, is
on the taxes coming in. The collection, hitherto, is out of all
proportion to the demand. It is of vast consequence, at this juncture,
that every thing possible should be done to forward it. I forbear
entering into details which would be very striking upon this subject. I
will only say, that unless there is a serious exertion in the States,
public credit must ere long receive another shock very disagreeable in
its consequences.

                                                 I have the honor to be,
                                                 With perfect respect,
                                                 Your Excellency’s
                                                 Most obedient servant,
                                                 A. Hamilton.

To His Excellency Governor Clinton.




HAMILTON TO REED.


                                                                   1783.

Sir:

Having always entertained an esteem for you personally, I could not,
without reluctance, yield to impressions that might weaken that
sentiment: and it is with pain I find myself drawn, by circumstances,
to animadvert upon the late message from the Executive Council to the
Assembly of Pennsylvania relative to the mutiny, in a manner which may
seem to impeach the candor of those who were the authors of it.

But it will be impossible for persons who have read the report of the
committee, and the message of the Council, however inclined to make
allowances for the force of involuntary bias, not to conclude, that
on one side or the other, the facts have been wilfully discolored.
I decline any attempt to set the public opinion right upon this
subject; because, after all that can be said, the judgments of men will
eventually be determined by personal and party prepossessions. So far
as I am concerned, I persuade myself those who are acquainted with me,
will place entire confidence in my fairness and veracity. I doubt not
your Excellency’s friends will be equally partial to you, and those
of the Council to them. But though I should despair of rectifying
or fixing the public opinion, by an appeal to the public; and though
I have seen too much of the ridicule thrown upon such appeals, from
men in official stations, and of the ill effect they have had upon
the national character, not to be willing to sacrifice the desire of
justifying myself to considerations of prudence and propriety; yet I
cannot forbear indulging my feelings so far as to enter into a few
explanations with your Excellency; submitting the justness of them to
the testimony of your own mind.

As this is a mere private discussion, I address myself to your
Excellency in particular; and the rather, as, from the style and manner
of the message, I take it for granted you had the principal agency in
it: and I shall consider, on the same grounds, the notes in      [20]
paper of the      [20], as a comment on the report of the committee by
yourself; in aid of the message.

I take up the matter individually, because I mean to treat it on a
private footing; and because, though I do not acknowledge any peculiar
responsibility, it happened to be my lot, as chairman, principally to
conduct the conferences on the part of the committee.

I regard the whole of this business as a most unfortunate one; in
which, probably, none of the actors will acquire great credit. I
deplore it, as tending to interrupt the harmony between Congress and
a respectable, a meritorious member of the Union. Who were right, or
who were wrong, is a question of less importance, than how mutual
irritations may be best healed. Whatever revives, or continues, the
former, is to be regretted. I lament to be under an inducement to
discuss circumstances that relate to it in the remotest degree. Nothing
but an attack upon the ingenuousness of my conduct, could have called
me to it. Its prudence, either collectively or individually, would
patiently have been consigned to the lash of censure and criticism,
merited or unmerited.

Happily, in the present case, the members of the committee have a
strong ground, from which they cannot easily be forced. Apprehensive
of misconception, I will not say of misrepresentation, they tried
to render it impossible by written documents. The presumption, with
impartial minds, cannot fail to be in favor of that side which gave so
decisive a proof of its disposition to fairness, as to endeavor to put
it out of its own power to misrepresent.

The professed scruples of the Council, cannot be admitted to have any
weight. Usage, and the plainest rules of propriety, will dictate, that
it never could have wounded the dignity, or delicacy, of the executive
of any State, to have given to a committee of Congress, appointed
to confer on a subject of moment, a written answer to a request in
writing after previous explanations. The fact stated speaks for itself.
The consequences show, that the precaution of the committee was well
judged; and that it would have been well for the Council to have
concurred.

In the present case it might be observed, that there was, in the first
instance, a written application from Congress to the Council, in the
customary form of resolutions: and though a committee was authorized to
confer and explain, a formal and authentic answer might reasonably have
been expected by Congress; and, when desired by the committee, should
have been understood as desired on their behalf.

There is an awkwardness in reasoning upon self-evident positions; but
as the Council have, by their conduct in the first instance, and by
their message since, put forward a doubt upon the subject, and made it
a point of importance, I shall be excused for examining it a little
further. On what could the objection of the Council be founded? They
say it had been unusual. Admitting the fact, was the mere novelty of
the thing a sufficient reason against it? If there was no apparent
inconvenience in making a new precedent; if; on the contrary, there was
a manifest convenience in it; ought not such a punctilio to have given
way to considerations of utility?

Was it derogatory to the dignity of the Council? Surely, if they
communicate in writing with the executive servants of Congress, even
those in subordinate stations, as is the practice of every day, and as
is indispensable to the prosecution of public business, they might, at
less expense of dignity, pursue the same mode with a part of that body
itself.

The distinction taken by the Council, in their message to the
Assembly, respecting the responsibility of such executive officers,
as not applicable to a committee, if it amounts to any thing, proves
only this: That such officers ought, in prudence, to take greater
precautions for their own justification than a committee of Congress
need to do. It is not to be inferred, if a committee of Congress,
acting ministerially, think it expedient to use circumspection, that
those with whom they are transacting business, can, with propriety,
refuse to join with them in that mode which is best adapted to
precision and certainty.

But, indeed, the ground of distinction is erroneous. A committee of
Congress act in a ministerial capacity, and are therefore responsible
to the body to which they belong, as well as the servants of that
body, though in a different manner. If it be said they do not act
ministerially, but stand in the place of Congress; then the Council,
upon their own principles, ought to have complied with their request.

To diminish the exceptionableness of their refusal, it is true,
as stated by the Council, that though they said they could not
_condescend_ to do what the committee had asked; yet they declared
themselves willing to _grant_ an answer in writing, if Congress should
request it; and that they proposed, that the committee should put their
verbal answer in writing, to be afterwards perused and examined by them.

The answer of the committee, as I doubt not your Excellency will
recollect, was, as to the first point, that Congress in all probability
would not make the request, having determined (as the Council had been
already informed) not to resume their deliberations in the city, till
effectual measures had been taken to suppress the mutiny; and should
they assemble, would naturally feel a delicacy in requesting what had
been denied to their committee. And as to the second point, that the
Council having judged it inexpedient to give a written answer, the
committee would content themselves with making the most accurate
report in their power, relying upon the confidence of the body to which
they belonged, and upon the candor of the Council.

Your Excellency is too good a judge of human nature, as well as of the
force of language, not to have perceived at the time, the effect which
the refusal of the Council had upon my mind. I own it struck me, either
as an uncandid reserve, or an unbecoming stateliness; and, in either
supposition, a disrespect to the body of which the committee were
members.

Though nothing enters less into my temper than an inclination to
fetter business by punctilio, after the Council had discovered such
overweening nicety, I should have thought it a degradation to my
official character, to have consented to their proposal.

The desire of self-justification is so natural, that I should not have
been surprised to have seen the transactions which are the subject of
the Council’s message, receive a coloring favorable to their purpose:
but I did not expect to find material facts either suppressed or denied.

The report made by the committee on the first interview with the
Council, was, I acknowledge, from memory, and therefore I admit a
possibility of error; but, so far as my memory can be relied on, the
representation was just. And I am certain that there is a mistake in
the insinuation, that the circumstance of the message sent to Congress
by the Board of Sergeants, was not mentioned at all to the Council;
for I have a note of it, taken immediately after the first conference
subsequent to the mutiny. The affair, by the event of      , having
assumed a more serious aspect, I kept a regular minute of the
proceedings; a summary of which, made up our report to Congress, and
which I shall annex, at large, to this letter for your Excellency’s
perusal.

The message entirely omits the declaration of the Council, that

 ... ... ... [21];

and the note says, that the Council only declared,
“That they could not be sure, that such another insult would produce
those exertions.”[22] The difference in this article is of great
importance. The declaration made so deep an impression at the time,
that almost the precise words remained in my memory. They were twice
repeated, as well when we saw your Excellency alone, in your own house,
in the morning, as when you delivered to us, in the Council chamber,
the determination of the Council.

Mr. Ellsworth[23], in half an hour afterwards, repeated them to several
members of Congress assembled at the President’s house; and in a few
hours from that time I committed them to writing. I cannot suppose your
Excellency’s recollection fails you in this particular; and I must
pointedly appeal to your candor.

To show the inaccuracy with which the report of the committee was
composed, it is observed, in the notes with respect to that part which
relates to the commission given by the mutineers to the officers whom
they had chosen to represent them, that only two hours had intervened
between that event and the conference with the Council; and that it
was very improbable the knowledge of it could have so early reached
the committee. It is added, that none of the Council remembers to have
heard a single syllable respecting it, during the whole conference.

As to the argument drawn from the short interval between the delivery
of the commission and the conference, it will be sufficient to say,
that the committee held a constant communication with General St.
Clair, and that he kept a vigilant eye upon all the motions of the
mutineers; that his access to them was easy; that the fact in question
was a matter of immediate notoriety; that two hours were abundant time
for a thing of that nature to be conveyed from the barracks to General
St. Clair’s quarters; and that one of the committee had actually seen,
and obtained the intelligence from him, a little time before the
interview with the Council commenced.

It is much more extraordinary that the Council should have been
apprised of it so late, than that the committee should have known it
so early. As to the memory of the Council, it is unfortunate it should
have been so fallible as it is said to have been: but I would rather
suppose, “in the quick succession of circumstances,” the matter had
escaped recollection, than that my minutes, as well as my memory,
should have deceived me. I well recollect, also, that your Excellency,
when it was mentioned, acknowledged that it rather contradicted the
pacific appearance which the conduct of the troops, in other respects,
wore.

These are the essential differences, in point of fact, between the
report of the committee, and the message of Council: the whole
complexion, indeed, of one, materially varies from the other; but the
most common observer must have noticed, how different an aspect the
same facts will bear, differently dressed and arranged. It was to avoid
this, we proposed to reduce them to writing: but as this has not been
done, spectators must judge, from the situation of the parties, and the
course of the transactions, which side has given the justest relation.

I cannot, however, forbear remarking, that I see expressions of
civility, on the part of the committee, making a figure in the message,
very different from their genuine intention; being introduced in a
manner that gives them the air of concessions in favor of the conduct
of the Council. Your Excellency will certainly recollect, that the
committee were very remote from a concurrence in sentiment with the
Council; and though they did not presume to judge of the disposition of
the citizens, strongly urged the expedience and necessity of calling
out the militia, and facility of employing them with success against
an unofficered and disorderly body of mutinous soldiers. It is true,
also, that they acknowledged the candor with which the Council exposed
to them, what they deemed the temper of their citizens, and their own
difficulties and embarrassments; which were, no doubt, delineated
with great energy of language, and display of circumstances: but they
certainly never admitted the candor of refusing an answer in writing,
which was a part of the _business_ transacted with the Council; nor
did they _withdraw_, without giving an intelligible intimation of
their sense of this proceeding. I was also surprised to see any part of
the private and confidential conversation I had with your Excellency,
ushered into the message from the Council; and moulded into such a
shape, as to imply, by an obvious construction, an approbation of
their reasons. Your Excellency will admit the following state of this
transaction to be a just one.

I waited upon the Council to correct a piece of information I had
given them respecting ammunition: but even this is misstated, as will
be seen by my minutes. Having done this, my official business ended;
when I was taken aside by your Excellency, and a conversation passed
in declared confidence. You informed me, that a meeting of the militia
officers was then holding, and in consultation with the Council about
eventual measures (in consequence, as I conjectured, of a communication
to you, the preceding evening, from the delegates of the State, of the
intention of Congress to remove from the city, in case they did not
receive satisfactory assurances of support). You added, that you hoped
nothing would be precipitated; but that proper allowances would be made
for the situation of the Council.

I understood your observations with reference to the departure of
Congress, and replied to this effect: That I viewed the departure of
Congress as a delicate measure, including consequences important to
the national character abroad, and critical with respect to the State
of Pennsylvania, and, in particular, the city of Philadelphia; that
the triumph of a handful of mutinous soldiers, permitted in a place
which is considered as the capital of America, to surround, and, in
fact, imprison Congress, without the least effort, on the part of the
citizens, to uphold their dignity and authority, so as to oblige them
to remove from the place which had been their residence during the
Revolution, would, it was to be feared, be viewed at a distance, as a
general disaffection of the citizens to the Federal Government; might
discredit its negotiations, and affect the national interests: that,
at home, it might give a deep wound to the reputation of Pennsylvania;
might draw upon it the resentments of the other States, and sow discord
between Congress and the State; that the removal of Congress would
probably bring the affair to a crisis; and, by convincing the mutineers
that extremities were intended, would either intimidate them into a
submission, or determine them to immediate excesses; that, impressed
with these considerations, and still hoping, notwithstanding some
appearances to the contrary, that the mutineers might be sincere in
their professions of submission, or that the Council, on further
examination, would find it in their power to act with vigor, I
had declined giving my assent to a report in writing, which would
necessarily be followed by the departure of Congress; that though the
committee had no discretion, by the powers under which they acted, but
were bound by the tenor of their instructions, the moment they did not
receive “satisfactory assurances of prompt and adequate exertions, on
the part of the State, for supporting the public authority,” to advise
the adjournment of Congress to Trenton or Princeton; and I therefore
considered the delay of this advice as at their extreme peril; yet,
as to myself, I should persist in it, till the result of the present
consultation with the militia officers, or till some new circumstance
should turn up, to explain the designs of the mutineers; and in
pursuing this line of conduct, I should counteract the sense of some
gentlemen, whose feelings upon the occasion were keen, and the opinions
of others, who thought the situation of Congress, under the existing
circumstances, extremely awkward, precarious, and unjustifiable to
their constituents.

Your Excellency approved my intention; wished for time; and promised,
if any new resolution should be taken, to give me immediate notice of
it.

The meeting of the militia officers dissolved. I heard nothing from
your Excellency. General St. Clair, about two in the afternoon,
informed the committee, that the officers appointed by the soldiers to
manage their business, had, in the first instance, refused to give him
an account of their transactions; the which was only extracted from
them by a peremptory demand. He mentioned to us the instructions they
had received from the soldiers, which contained faint and affected
concessions, mixed with new and inadmissible claims.

The whole affair wore the complexion of collusion between the officers
of the committee and the soldiery; and of a mere amusement on their
part, till they could gain fresh strength and execute their project,
whatever it might be, with greater advantage.

This behavior of the officers gave the affair a new and more serious
aspect, and overcame my opposition to the report. Mr. Peters, on
hearing the relation of General St. Clair, declared, at once, that he
thought the committee had then no alternative; at least, what he said
was understood in this sense by General St. Clair, Mr. Ellsworth, and
myself. If I am not much mistaken, General St. Clair also expressed his
opinion that Congress were unsafe in the city.

The ideas I suggested to your Excellency, in the conversation I have
mentioned, were substantially expressed to several members of Congress
as the motives of my delay; and particularly, I recollect, to Mr.
Madison, with these observations in addition: That though I was fully
convinced Congress, under an immediate view of circumstances, would,
in reality, be justified in withdrawing from a place where such an
outrage to government had been with impunity perpetrated, by a body
of armed mutineers, still, for several days, in complete command of
the city, and where either the feebleness of public councils, or the
indisposition of the citizens, afforded no assurance of protection
and support; yet, as the opinions of men would be governed by events,
and as the most probable event was, that the removal of Congress,
announcing decisive measures of coercion to the soldiery, would awe
them into submission, there was great danger that the reputation of
Congress would suffer by the easy termination of the business; and that
they would be accused of levity, timidity, or rashness.

Though not within the scope of my original intention, I will indulge
a few additional reflections on this subject. I am sensible that the
Council, in some respects, stand upon advantageous ground in this
discussion. Congress left the city, because they had no forces at
hand, no jurisdiction over the militia, and no assurances of effectual
support from those who had. The Council, as the Executive of the
State, were necessitated to remain on the spot. Soon after Congress
removed, the mutineers were deserted by their leaders, and surrendered
at discretion.

The multitude will be very apt to conclude, that the affair was of
trifling consequence; that it vanished under its own insignificance;
that Congress took up the matter in too high a tone of authority; that
they discovered a prudish nicety and irritability about their own
dignity: that Council were more temperate, more humane, and possessed
of greater foresight.

The bias in favor of an injured army; the propensity of the human mind
to lean to the speciousness of professed humanity, rather than to the
necessary harshness of authority; the vague and imperfect notions of
what is due to public authority, in an infant popular government; and
the insinuating plausibility of a well-constructed _message_; will all
contribute to that conclusion.

But let us suppose an impartial man of sense, well acquainted with
facts, to form an argument upon the subject. It appears to me, he might
naturally fall into this train of combination.

It is a well known fact, that, from the necessities of the war, or
the delinquencies of the several States, Congress were not enabled to
comply with their engagements to the army, which, after a glorious
and successful struggle for their country, much suffering, exemplary
patience, and signal desert, they were compelled, by the irresistible
dictates of an empty treasury and a ruined credit, to disband, after
having given strong indications of their discontent, and resentment of
the public neglect. A large part of the army suffer themselves to be
patiently dismissed; a particular corps of four or five hundred men,
stationed in the place where Congress reside, refuse to accept their
discharges but on certain specified conditions.

They even go further, and, stimulated by their injuries, or encouraged
and misled by designing persons, are emboldened to send a threatening
message to Congress, declaring to them, that unless they would do them
justice immediately, they would find means of redress for themselves.
Measures are indirectly taken to appease this disorder, and give the
discontented soldiers as much satisfaction as the situation of things
will permit. Shortly after, accounts are received, that another corps,
at     miles distance, have also mutinied; and that a part of them, to
the number of about eighty men, are on their march to join those who
had already discovered so refractory a disposition. A committee of
Congress is immediately appointed to confer with the Executive of
the State, on the measures proper to be pursued in this exigency.
That committee, in the first instance, suggest to the Council,
the expedience of calling out a body of militia, to intercept the
detachment of mutineers on its march, and represent the danger of
the progress of the spirit of mutiny, and of future outrages, should
those on their march be suffered, without molestation, to join a more
numerous corps in the same temper with themselves.

The Council urge a variety of difficulties: the shortness of the
time to collect the militia before the mutineers would arrive; the
reluctance with which the citizens would obey a call against men whom
they consider as meritorious, and injured, and the like. The committee,
perceiving the unwillingness of the Council to employ the militia,
desist from pressing, and recur to expedients. The day after, the
mutineers march in triumph into the city, and unite themselves with
those who are already there; and the following day, the whole body
assemble in arms, throw off all obedience to their officers, and, in
open defiance of government, march to the place which is the usual
seat of Congress and the Council of the State, while both are actually
sitting; surround it with guards, and send a message to the Council,
demanding authority to appoint, themselves, officers to command them,
with absolute discretion to take such measures as those officers should
think proper, to redress their grievances; accompanied with a threat,
that if there was not a compliance in twenty minutes, they would let in
an injured soldiery upon them, and abide the consequence.

The members of Congress who were at the time assembled, request General
St. Clair, who happened to be present, to take such measures as he
should judge expedient, without committing the honor of government,
to divert the storm, and induce the troops to return to their quarters
without perpetrating acts of violence. General St. Clair, in concert
with the Council, grants the mutineers permission to elect, out of
officers then, or formerly, in commission, such as they should confide
in, to represent their grievances to the Council, with a promise, that
the Council would confer with the persons elected for that purpose.
Having obtained this promise, the mutineers return to their quarters,
in military parade, and continue in open defiance of government.

The concession made was a happy compromise between an attention to
dignity, and a prudent regard to safety.

Men who had dared to carry their insolence to such an extreme, and who
saw no opposition to their outrages, were not to be expected to retreat
without an appearance, at least, of gratifying their demands. The
slightest accident was sufficient to prompt men, in such a temper and
situation, to tragical excesses.

But however it might become the delicacy of government not to depart
from the promise it had given, it was its duty to provide effectually
against a repetition of such outrages; and to put itself in a situation
to give, instead of receiving, the law; and to manifest that its
compliance was not the effect of necessity, but of choice.

This was not to be considered as the disorderly riot of an unarmed mob,
but as the deliberate mutiny of an incensed soldiery, carried to the
utmost point of outrage short of assassination. The licentiousness of
an army is to be dreaded in every government; but, in a republic, it
is more particularly to be restrained; and when directed against the
civil authority, to be checked with energy, and punished with severity.
The merits and sufferings of the troops might be a proper motive for
mitigating punishment, when it was in the power of the government
to inflict it; but it was no reason for relaxing in the measures
necessary to put itself in that situation. Its authority was first to
be vindicated, and then its clemency to be displayed.

The rights of government are as essential to be defended, as the rights
of individuals. The security of the one is inseparable from that of
the other. And, indeed, in every new government, especially of the
popular kind, the great danger is, that public authority will not be
sufficiently respected.

But upon this occasion, there were more particular reasons for decision.

Congress knew there were, within two or three days’ march of the city,
a more considerable body of the same corps, part of which had mutinied
and come to town, and had been the chief actors in the late disorder;
that those men had, with difficulty, been kept, by the exertions of
their officers, from joining the insurgents in the first instance; that
there was another corps in their neighborhood which, a little time
before, had also discovered symptoms of mutiny; that a considerable
part of the same line which were in mutiny in town, was every moment
expected to arrive from the southward, and, there was the greatest
reason to conclude, would be infected with the same spirit, on their
arrival, as had presently happened in the case of a small detachment
which had joined a few days before; that there were, besides, large
numbers of disbanded soldiers, scattered through the country, in want,
and who had not yet had time to settle down to any occupation, and
exchange their military for private habits; that some of these were
really coming in, and adding themselves to the revolters; that an
extensive accession of strength might be gained from these different
quarters; and that there were all the sympathies of like common wrongs,
distresses, and resentments, to bring them together, and to unite them
in one cause. The partial success of those who had already made an
experiment, would be a strong encouragement to others; the rather, as
the whole line had formerly mutinied, not only with impunity, but with
advantage to themselves.

In this state of things, decision was most compatible with the safety
of the community, as well as the dignity of government. Though no
general convulsion might be to be apprehended, serious mischiefs
might attend the progress of the disorder. Indeed, it would have been
meanness, to have negotiated and temporized with an armed banditti of
four or five hundred men; who, in any other situation than surrounding
a defenceless senate, could only become formidable by being feared.
This was not an insurrection of a whole people: it was not an army with
their officers at their head, demanding the justice of their country;
either of which might have made caution and concession respectable: it
was a handful of mutinous soldiers, who had equally violated the laws
of discipline, as the rights of public authority.

Congress, therefore, wisely resolve, that “it is necessary that
effectual measures be immediately taken for supporting the public
authority;” and call upon the State in which they reside, for the
assistance of its militia, at the same time that they send orders for
the march of a body of regular forces as an eventual resource.

There was a propriety in calling for the aid of the militia in the
first place, for different reasons. Civil government may always, with
more peculiar propriety, resort to the aid of the citizens, to repel
military insults or encroachments.

’Tis there, it ought to be supposed, where it may seek its surest
dependence, especially in a democracy, which is the creature of the
people. The citizens of each State are, in an aggregate light, the
citizens of the United States, and bound, as much to support the
representatives of the whole, as their own immediate representatives.
The insult was not to Congress personally; it was to the government,
to public authority in general; and was very properly put upon that
footing. The regular forces, which Congress could command, were at a
great distance, and could not, but in a length of time, be brought
to effectuate their purpose. The disorder continued to exist on the
spot where they were; was likely to increase by delay; and might be
productive of sudden and mischievous effects by being neglected.

The city and the Bank were in immediate danger of being rifled; and,
perhaps, of suffering other calamities. The citizens, therefore, were
the proper persons to make the first exertion.

The objection, that these were not the objects of the care of Congress,
can only serve to mislead the vulgar. The peace and safety of the place
which was the immediate residence of Congress, _endangered, too, by
the troops of the United States_, demanded their interposition. The
President of the State of Pennsylvania was himself of this opinion;
having declared to a member of that body, that as their troops were the
offenders, it was proper for them to declare the necessity of calling
out the militia, as a previous step to its being done.

Nor is there more weight in the supposition that the danger was
inconsiderable; and that, from the pacific appearances of the troops,
it was to be expected, the disorder would subside of itself. The facts
were, that the troops still continued in a state of mutiny; had made no
submissions, nor offered any; and that they affected to negotiate with
their arms in their hands.

A band of mutinous soldiers, in such a situation, uncontrolled, and
elated with their own power, was not to be trusted.

The most sudden vicissitudes and contradictory changes were to be
expected; and a fit of intoxication was sufficient, at any moment,
with men who had already gone such length, to make the city a scene of
plunder and massacre. It was the height of rashness to leave the city
exposed to the bare possibility of such mischiefs.

The only question, in this view, is, Whether there was greater
danger to the city, in attempting their reduction by force, than in
endeavoring, by palliatives, to bring them to a sense of duty? It has
been urged, and appeared to have operated strongly upon the minds of
the Council,[24] that the soldiers being already embodied, accustomed
to arms, and ready to act at a moment’s warning, it would be extremely
hazardous to attempt to collect the citizens to subdue them, as the
mutineers might have taken advantage of the first confusion incident to
the measure, to do a great deal of mischief, before this militia could
have assembled in equal or superior force.

It is not to be denied, but that a small body of disciplined troops,
headed and led by their officers, with a plan of conduct, could have
effected a great deal in similar circumstances; but it is equally
certain, that nothing can be more contemptible, than a body of men,
used to be commanded and to obey, when deprived of the example and
direction of their officers. They are infinitely less to be dreaded
than an equal number of men who have never been broken to command, nor
exchanged their natural courage for that artificial kind which is the
effect of discipline and habit. Soldiers transfer their confidence from
themselves to their officers, face danger by the force of example,
the dread of punishment, and the sense of necessity. Take away these
inducements and leave them to themselves, they are no longer resolute
than till they are opposed.

In the present case, it was to be relied upon, that the appearance of
opposition would instantly bring the mutineers to a sense of their
insignificance, and to submission. Conscious of their weakness, from
the smallness of their numbers; in a populous city, and in the midst of
a populous country; awed by the consequences of resisting government
by arms, and confounded by the want of proper leaders and proper
direction; the common soldiers would have thought of nothing but making
their peace by the sacrifice of those who had been the authors of their
misconduct.

The idea, therefore, of coercion, was the safest and most prudent: for
more was to be apprehended from leaving them to their own passions,
than from attempting to control them by force. It will be seen, by and
by, how far the events, justly appreciated, corresponded with this
reasoning.

Congress were not only right in adopting measures of coercion; but
they were also right in resolving to change their situation, if proper
exertions were not made by the particular government and citizens of
the place where they resided. The want of such exertions would evince
some defect, no matter where, that would prove they ought to have no
confidence in their situation. They were, to all intents and purposes,
in the power of a lawless, armed banditti, enraged, whether justly,
or not, against them. However they might have had a right to expose
their own persons to insult and outrage, they had no right to expose
the character of representatives, or the dignity of the States they
represented, or of the Union. It was plain, they could not, with
propriety, in such a state of things, proceed in their deliberations
where they were; and it was right they should repair to a place where
they could do it. It was far from impossible, that the mutineers might
have been induced to seize their persons, as hostages for their own
security, as well as with a hope of extorting concessions. Had such
an event taken place, the whole country would have exclaimed, Why did
not Congress withdraw from a place where they found they could not be
assured of support; where the government was so feeble, or the citizens
so indisposed, as to suffer three or four hundred mutinous soldiers
to violate, with impunity, the authority of the United States, and of
their own State?

When they resolved to depart, on the want of adequate exertions, they
had reason to doubt their being made, from the disinclination shown by
the Council to call out the militia in the first instance: and when
they did actually depart, they were informed by the Council, that
the efforts of the citizens were not to be looked for, even from a
repetition of the outrage which had already happened; and it was to
be doubted what measure of outrage would produce them. They had also
convincing proof, that the mutiny was more serious than it had even at
first appeared, by the participation of some of the officers.

To throw the blame of harshness and precipitancy upon Congress, it is
said, that their dignity was only _accidentally_ and _undesignedly_
offended. Much stress has been laid upon the message, from the
soldiery being directed to the Council, and not to them. All this,
however, is very immaterial to the real merits of the question.
Whatever might have been the first intention of the mutineers in this
particular act, whether it proceeded from artifice or confusion of
ideas, the indignity to Congress was the same. They knew that Congress
customarily held their deliberations at the State House: and if it
even be admitted, that they knew Saturday to be a day of usual recess,
which, perhaps, is not altogether probable: when they came to the
place they saw, and knew, Congress to be assembled there. They did not
desist in consequence of this; but proceeded to station their guards,
and execute their purposes. Members of Congress went out to them;
remonstrated with them; represented the danger of their proceedings
to themselves, and desired them to withdraw: but they persisted till
they obtained what they supposed a part of their object. A majority of
the same persons had, some days before, sent a message, almost equally
exceptionable, to Congress; and at the time they scarcely spoke of any
other body than Congress; who, indeed, may naturally be supposed to
have been the main object of their resentments: for Congress, having
always appeared to the soldiery, to be the body who contracted with
them, and who had broken faith with them, it is not to be supposed they
were capable of investigating the remote causes of the failures, so as
to transfer the odium from Congress to the State.

But the substantial thing to be considered in this question, is the
violation of public authority. It cannot be disputed, that the mutiny
of troops is a violation of that authority to which they owe obedience.
This was, in the present case, aggravated to a high degree of
atrociousness, by the gross insult to the government of Pennsylvania,
in the face of Congress, and in defiance of their displeasure. It was
further aggravated by continuing in that condition for a series of time.

The reasons have been assigned, that made it incumbent upon Congress
to interpose; and when they called upon the State of Pennsylvania, not
only to vindicate its own rights, but to support their authority, the
declining a compliance was a breach of the Confederation, and of the
duty which the State of Pennsylvania owed to the United States. The
best apology for the government of Pennsylvania, in this case, is,
that they could not command the services of their citizens. But so
improper a disposition in the citizens, if admitted, must operate as an
additional justification to Congress, in their removal.

The subsequent events, justly appreciated, illustrate the propriety
of their conduct. The mutineers did not make voluntary submissions
in consequence of negotiation, persuasion, or conviction. They did
not submit till after Congress had left the city, publishing their
intentions of coercion; till after there had been an _actual call_
upon the militia; till their leaders and instigators, alarmed by the
approach of force, and the fear of being betrayed by the men, fled.
They were reduced by coercion, not overcome by mildness. It appears,
too, that while they were professing repentance, and a return to their
duty, they were tampering with the troops at Yorktown and Lancaster,
to increase their strength; and that two officers, at least, were
concerned in the mutiny, who, by their letters since, have confessed,
that some project of importance was in contemplation.

The call for the militia was made the day after it had been pronounced
ineligible by the Council. There could have been little change, in that
time, either in the temper or preparations of the citizens. The truth
is, that the departure of Congress brought the matter to a crisis; and
that the Council were compelled, by necessity, to do what they ought to
have done before, through choice.

It is to be lamented they did not, by an earlier decision, prevent the
necessity of Congress taking a step which may have many disagreeable
consequences. They then would

[_The residue of the manuscript is not found._]


[20] These blanks are in the manuscript.

[21] This blank is in the manuscript.

[22] “The words, as reported by the committee to Congress, were, ‘It,’
i.e., the arming of the citizens to suppress the mutineers, ‘was not
to be expected, merely from a repetition of the insult which had
happened.’”--Note by Col. Pickering.

[23] “Mr. Ellsworth was the other member of the committee.--T. P.”

[24] Your Excellency will recollect, that, in our private conversation,
you urged this consideration, and appealed to my military experience;
and that I made, substantially, the observations which follow.




HAMILTON TO MADISON.


                                      Princeton, June 29, 1783.

Dear Sir:

I am informed, that, among other disagreeable things said about the
removal of Congress from Philadelphia, it is insinuated, that it
was a contrivance of some members, to get them out of the State of
Pennsylvania, into one of those to which they belonged; and I am told,
that this insinuation has been pointed at me in particular.

Though I am persuaded, that all disinterested persons will justify
Congress in quitting a place where they were told they were not to
expect support (for the conduct of the Council amounted to that), yet,
I am unwilling to be held up as having had an extraordinary agency
in the measure for interested purposes, when the fact is directly
the reverse. As you were a witness to my conduct and opinions through
the whole of the transaction, I am induced to trouble you for your
testimony upon this occasion. I do not mean to make a public use of it;
but, through my friends, to vindicate myself from the imputations I
have mentioned.

I will therefore request your answers to the following questions:

Did that part of the resolutions, which related to the removal of
Congress, originate with me, or not?

Did I, as a member of the committee, appear to press the departure; or
did I not rather manifest a strong disposition to postpone that event
as long as possible, even against the general current of opinion?

I wish you to be as particular and full in your answer as your memory
will permit. I think you will recollect, that my idea was clearly
this: That the mutiny ought not to be terminated by negotiation; that
Congress were justifiable in leaving a place where they did not receive
the support which they had a right to expect; but, as their removal
was a measure of a critical and delicate nature; might have an ill
appearance in Europe; and might, from events, be susceptible of an
unfavorable interpretation in this country; it was prudent to delay it
till its necessity became apparent: not only till it was manifest there
would be no change in the spirit which seemed to actuate the Council;
but till it was evident, complete submission was not to be expected
from the troops; that, to give full time for this, it would be proper
to delay the departure of Congress till the latest period which would
be compatible with the idea of meeting at Trenton or Princeton on
Thursday--perhaps even till Thursday morning.

                                  I am, Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                  A. Hamilton.


To James Madison, Junior, Esq.




HAMILTON TO JAMES MADISON, JR.


                                    Philadelphia, July 6, 1783.

Dear Sir:

On my arrival in this city I am more convinced than I was of the
necessity of giving a just state of facts to the public. The current
runs strongly against Congress, and in a great measure for want of
information. When facts are explained they make an impression, and
incline to conclusions more favorable to us.

I have no copy of the Reports in my possession, which puts it out of my
power to publish them. Will you procure and send me one without loss of
time? Without appearing, I intend to give them to the public with some
additional explanations. This done with moderation will no doubt have a
good effect.

The prevailing idea is, that the actors in the removal of Congress
were influenced by the desire of getting them out of the city, and the
generality of the remainder by timidity--some say passion. Few give a
more favorable interpretation.

I will thank you in your letter to me to answer the following question:

What appeared to be my ideas and disposition respecting the removal of
Congress? Did I appear to wish to hasten it, or did I not rather show a
strong disposition to procrastinate it?

I will be obliged to you in answering this question to do it fully. I
do not intend to make any public use of it, but through my friends to
vindicate myself from the insinuation I have mentioned, and in that
to confute the supposition that the motive assigned did actuate the
members on whom it fell to be more particularly active.

                                                   Yours,
                                                   A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MRS. HAMILTON.


                                   Philadelphia, July 22, 1783.

I wrote you, my beloved Eliza, by the last post, which I hope will
not meet with the fate that many others of my letters must have met
with. I count upon setting out to see you in four days; but I have
been so frequently disappointed by unforeseen events, that I shall
not be without apprehensions of being detained, till I have begun my
journey. The members of Congress are very pressing with me not to go
away at this time, as the House is thin, and as the definitive treaty
is momently expected.

Tell your father that Mr. Rivington, in a letter to the South Carolina
delegates, has given information, coming to him from Admiral Arbuthnot,
that the Mercury frigate is arrived at New-York with the definitive
treaty, and that the city was to be evacuated yesterday, by the treaty.

I am strongly urged to stay a few days for the ratification of the
treaty; at all events, however, I will not be long absent.

I give you joy of the happy conclusion of this important work in which
your country has been engaged. Now, in a very short time, I hope we
shall be happily settled in New-York.

My love to your father. Kiss my boy a thousand times.

                                                   A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR CLINTON.


                                      Princeton, July 27, 1783.

Sir:

A few days since I was honored with your Excellency’s letter of the
 ; and was glad to find your ideas on the subject
corresponded with mine.

As I shall, in a day or two, take leave of Congress, I think it my
duty to give my opinion to the Legislature, on a matter of importance
to the State, which has been long depending, and is still without a
prospect of termination in the train in which it has been placed: I
mean the affair of the Grants. It is hazardous to pass a positive
judgment on what will happen in a body so mutable as that of Congress;
but from all I have seen, I have come to a settled opinion, that no
determination will be taken and executed by them in any other manner,
than in that prescribed by the Confederation. There is always such
a diversity of views and interests; so many compromises to be made
between different States; that, in a question of this nature, the
embarrassments of which have been increased by the steps that have
preceded, and in which the passions of the opposite sides have taken
a warm part, decision must be the result of necessity. While Congress
have a discretion, they will procrastinate: when they are bound by the
Constitution, they must proceed.

It is, therefore, my opinion, that it will be advisable for the
Legislature, when they meet, to review the question; and either to
relinquish their pretensions to the country in dispute, or to instruct
their delegates, if a decision is not had within a limited time, to
declare the submission to Congress revoked, and to institute a claim
according to the principles of the Confederation.

It would be out of my province to discuss which side of the alternative
ought, in policy, to prevail: but I will take the liberty to observe,
that if the last should be preferred, it would be expedient to remove
every motive of opposition from private claims; not only by confirming,
in their full latitude, previous to the trial, the possessions of the
original settlers, but even the grants of the usurped government. It
may happen, that it will be eventually necessary to employ force;
and, in this case, it would be of great importance that neither the
inhabitants of the Grants, nor powerful individuals in other States,
should find their private interest in contradiction to that of the
State. This has already had great influence in counteracting our
wishes; would continue to throw impediments in the way of ulterior
measures; and might at last kindle a serious flame between the States.

I communicated to your Excellency, in a former letter, that I had
declined pressing the application of the Legislature to Congress,
respecting the State troops for garrisoning the frontier posts, because
temporary provision had been made in another way, which would save the
State the immediate expense; and because there was a prospect of some
general provision for the defence of the frontiers on a Continental
establishment, which was to be preferred on every account. A report for
this purpose is now before Congress; but the thinness of representation
has, for some time, retarded, and still retards, its consideration.

The definitive treaty is not yet arrived; but from accounts which,
though not official, appear to deserve credit, it may be daily
expected. A gentleman, known and confided in, has arrived at
Philadelphia, who informs, that he saw a letter from Dr. Franklin to
Mr. Barkeley, telling him that the definitive treaties were signed the
twenty-seventh of May, between all the parties; that New-York was to be
evacuated in six months from the ratification of the preliminaries in
Europe, which will be the twelfth or fifteenth of next month.

As it is not my intention to return to Congress, I take this
opportunity to make my respectful acknowledgments to the Legislature,
for the honorable mark of their confidence conferred upon me, by having
chosen me to represent the State in that body. I shall be happy if my
conduct has been agreeable to them.

                                                 With perfect respect,
                                                 I have the honor to be,
                                                 Your Excellency’s
                                                 Most obedient servant,
                                                 A. Hamilton.

To his Excellency General Washington.




CLINTON TO DUANE AND L’HOMMEDIEU.


                                                          Aug. 23, 1783.

* * * * I would take this opportunity also of calling your attention to
concurrent resolutions of the Legislature, respecting the garrisoning
of the Western posts in this State, which, by the provisional treaty,
are to be evacuated by the British. These resolutions were in the tenor
of instructions to our delegates, and were immediately transmitted to
them; but as I have not been favored with any official information of
the result, I submit it to you whether some report on a subject so
interesting to the State, may not be necessary for the satisfaction
of the Legislature. From informal communications made to me by the
Commander-in-Chief, I have reason to believe, that he has directions
from Congress for garrisoning those posts with continental troops,
and that he is making arrangements for that purpose. But as you will
observe, that as it was the sense of the Legislature, that those posts
should have been garrisoned by the State, an explanation on the subject
becomes the more necessary; and it is now for this reason alone, I
would request, that you would be pleased to favor me with a particular
detail of the motives which influenced the determination of Congress on
this occasion. For it will readily be perceived, that should Congress,
at this late day, accede to the propositions made by the State, it
might be impracticable to carry them into execution, especially, as I
have not ventured, in the state of uncertainty in which I was left,
to incur the expense which the necessary preparations for the purpose
would have required * * *

                                                  Geo. Clinton.




DUANE AND L’HOMMEDIEU TO FLOYD AND HAMILTON.


                                               Princeton, 1783.

Honorable Gentlemen:

We inclose you an extract of Dispatches from his Excellency our
Governor, received this day, respecting the instructions of the
Legislature, at their last session, for the security of the Western
posts.

You will be pleased to observe, that an official Report, on a subject
so interesting to the State, is deemed to be necessary; as well
as a particular detail of the motives which influenced Congress
against the declared sense of the State; to give directions to the
Commander-in-Chief for garrisoning those posts with Continental troops.
This is a duty to which, not having been present at the debates, we
find ourselves incompetent. We can therefore, only refer His Excellency
and the Legislature to you, our worthy colleagues, who, being fully
possessed of the facts, can alone give the necessary official
information.

                  With sentiments of the most perfect esteem and regard,
                  We have the honor to be,
                  Gentlemen,
                  Your most obedient servants,
                  Jas. Duane.
                  Ezra L’Hommedieu.

  The Honorable
  Cols. William Floyd and
  Alexander Hamilton.




JAY TO HAMILTON.


                                         Passy, Sept. 28, 1783.

Dear Sir:

You was always of the number of those I esteemed, and your
correspondence would both be interesting and agreeable. I had heard of
your marriage, and it gave me pleasure, as well because it added to
your happiness, as because it tended to fix your residence in a State
of which I long wished you to be and remain a citizen.

The character and talents of delegates to Congress daily become more
and more important, and I regret your declining that appointment at
this interesting period. Respect, however, is due to the considerations
which influence you, but as they do not oppose your accepting a place
in the Legislature, I hope the State will still continue to draw
advantage from your services; much remains to be done, and laborers do
not abound.

I am happy to hear that terms of peace, and the conduct of your
negotiators, give general satisfaction: but there are some of
our countrymen, it seems, who are not content; and that, too,
with an article which I thought to be very unexceptionable; viz.,
the one ascertaining our boundaries. Perhaps those gentlemen are
latitudinarians.

The American newspapers, for some months past, contain advices which
do us harm. Violences and associations against the tories, pay an ill
compliment to government, and impeach our good faith in the opinion of
some, and our magnanimity in the opinion of many. Our reputation also
suffers, from the apparent reluctance to taxes, and the ease with which
we incur debts without providing for their payment. The complaints of
the army; the jealousies respecting Congress; the circumstances which
induced their leaving Philadelphia; and the too little appearance
of a national spirit pervading, uniting, and invigorating the
Confederacy, are considered as omens which portend the diminution of
our respectability, power, and felicity.

I hope that, as the wheel turns round, other and better indications
will soon appear. I am persuaded that America possesses too much wisdom
and virtue, to permit her brilliant prospects to fade away for want of
either.

The tories are almost as much pitied in these countries as they are
execrated in ours. An undue degree of severity towards them, would,
therefore, be impolitic, as well as unjustifiable. They who incline
to involve that whole class of men in indiscriminate punishment and
ruin, certainly carry the matter too far. It would be an instance of
unnecessary rigor, and unmanly revenge, without a parallel, except in
the annals of religious rage in times of bigotry and blindness. What
does it signify where nine-tenths of these people are buried? I would
rather see the sweat of their brows fertilize our fields than those of
our neighbors. * * * * *

Victory and Peace should, in my opinion, be followed by Clemency,
Moderation, and Benevolence: and we should be careful not to sully the
glory of the Revolution, by licentiousness and cruelty. These are my
sentiments: and however unpopular they may be, I have not the least
desire to conceal or disguise them.

                                 Believe me to be,
                                 With great regard and esteem, dear Sir,
                                 Your most obedient humble servant,
                                 John Jay.


Colonel A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                    Albany, September 30, 1783.

Dear Sir:

As I flatter myself I may indulge a consciousness that my services have
been of some value to the public, at least enough to merit the small
compensation I wish, I will make no apology to your Excellency, for
conveying, through you, that wish to Congress. You are able to inform
them, if they wish information, in what degree I may have been useful:
and I have entire confidence that you will do me justice.

In a letter which I wrote to you several months ago, I intimated
that it might be in your power to contribute to the establishment
of our Federal Union upon a more solid basis. I have never since
explained myself. At the time, I was in hopes Congress might have
been induced to take a decisive ground; to inform their constituents
of the imperfections of the present system, and of the impossibility
of conducting the public affairs, with honor to themselves and
advantage to the community, with powers so disproportioned to their
responsibility; and, having done this, in a full and forcible manner,
to adjourn the moment the definitive treaty was ratified. In retiring
at the same juncture, I wished you, in a solemn manner, to declare to
the people, your intended retreat from public concerns; your opinion of
the present government, and of the absolute necessity of a change.

Before I left Congress I despaired of the first; and your circular
letter to the States had anticipated the last. I trust it will not be
without effect; though I am persuaded it would have had more, combined
with what I have mentioned. At all events, without compliment, sir, it
will do you honor with the sensible and well meaning; and, ultimately,
it is to be hoped, with the people at large, when the present epidemic
frenzy has subsided.

                                                  I am, dear Sir,
                                                  With sincere esteem,
                                                  Your obedient servant,
                                                  A. Hamilton.

To His Excellency General Washington.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                    Albany, September 30, 1783.

Sir:

I think I may address the subject of this letter to your Excellency
with more propriety than to any other person, as it is purely of
a military nature; as you are best acquainted with my services as
an officer; and as you are now engaged in assisting to form the
arrangements for the future peace establishment.

Your Excellency knows, that in March, ’82, I relinquished all claim to
any future compensation for my services, either during the residue of
the war, or after its conclusion--simply retaining my rank. On this
foundation I build a hope, that I may be permitted to preserve my rank,
on the peace establishment, without emoluments and unattached to any
corps--as an honorary reward for the time I have devoted to the public.
As I may hereafter travel, I may find it an agreeable circumstance to
appear in the character I have supported in the Revolution.

I rest my claim solely on the sacrifice I have made; because I have
no reason to believe that my services have appeared of any value to
Congress; as they declined giving them any marks of their notice, on
an occasion which appeared to my friends to entitle me to it, as well
by the common practice of sovereigns, as by the particular practice of
this country in repeated instances.

Your Excellency will recollect, that it was my lot at York Town to
command, as senior officer, a successful attack upon one of the enemy’s
redoubts; that the officer who acted in a similar capacity in another
attack, made at the same time by the French troops, has been handsomely
distinguished, in consequence of it, by the government to which he
belongs; and that there are several examples among us, where Congress
have bestowed honors upon actions, perhaps not more useful nor,
apparently, more hazardous.

These observations are inapplicable to the present Congress, further
than as they may possibly furnish an additional motive to a compliance
with my wish.

The only thing I ask of your Excellency, is, that my application
may come into view in the course of the consultations on the peace
establishment.

                                                 I have the honor to be,
                                                 With sincere esteem,
                                                 Your Excellency’s
                                                 Most obedient servant,
                                                 A. Hamilton.

To His Excellency General Washington.




HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR CLINTON.


                                       Albany, October 3, 1783.

Sir:

I have lately received from Messrs. Duane and L’Hommedieu, an extract
of a letter from your Excellency to the delegates, of the twenty-third
of August last, requesting “a particular detail of the motives
which influenced the determination of Congress,” respecting the
application of the Legislature to have their State troops released from
Continental pay, for the purpose of garrisoning the frontier posts. In
my letters to your Excellency, of the first of June and twenty-seventh
of July, which were intended to be official, I summarily informed you,
that Congress had made temporary provision for garrisoning the frontier
posts, and that a plan was under deliberation relative to a peace
establishment, which would, of course, embrace that object permanently;
that such temporary provision being made at the common expense, and a
general plan being under consideration for the future, I had declined
pressing a compliance with the application of the Legislature;
conceiving it to be more for the interest of the State, that the
expense should be jointly borne, than that it should fall exclusively
upon itself.

I did not enter into a more full detail upon the subject, because the
business continued, to the time I left Congress, in an undecided state;
and it was impossible to judge what views would finally prevail.

The concurrent resolutions of the two Houses had been immediately, on
their receipt, referred to a committee appointed to report on a peace
establishment, who had suspended their report on these resolutions,
till it should appear, what would be the fate of a general plan which
had been submitted.

As to the motives that influenced Congress in making the provision
they did make, rather than immediately assenting to the application
of the State; as far as I was able to collect them, they were these:
The opinions of many were unsettled as to the most eligible mode of
providing for the security of the frontiers, consistent with the
Constitution, as well with respect to the general policy of the Union,
as to considerations of justice to those States whose frontiers were
more immediately exposed. A considerable part of the House appeared to
think, from reasons of a very cogent nature, that the well-being of the
Union required a federal provision for the security of the different
parts; and that it would be a great hardship to individual States,
peculiarly circumstanced, to throw the whole burthen of expense upon
them, by recurring to separate provisions, in a matter, the benefit of
which would be immediately shared by their neighbors, and, ultimately,
by the Union at large: that, indeed, it was not probable particular
States would be either able, or, _upon experiment_, willing, to make
competent provision at their separate expense; and that the principle
might eventually excite jealousies between the States unfriendly to the
common tranquillity.

I freely confess I was one who held this opinion.

Questions naturally arose as to the true construction of the articles
of Confederation upon this head; questions as delicate as interesting,
and as difficult of solution.

On one hand, it was doubted whether Congress were authorized by the
Confederation, to proceed upon the idea of a federal provision: on the
other, it was perceived that such a contrary construction would be
dangerous to the Union, including, among other inconveniences, this
consequence: That the United States, in Congress, cannot raise a single
regiment, nor equip a single ship, for the general defence, till after
a declaration of war, or an actual commencement of hostilities.

In this dilemma, on an important constitutional question; other urgent
matters depending before Congress; and the advanced season requiring a
determination upon the mode of securing the western posts in case of
a surrender this fall; all sides of the House concurred in making a
temporary provision, in the manner which has been communicated.

My apprehension of the views of the Legislature was simply this:
That, looking forward to a surrender of the posts, and conceiving,
from some expressions in the articles of Confederation, that separate
provision was to be made for the frontier garrisons; they had thought
it expedient to apply the troops already on foot to that purpose, and
to propose to Congress to give their sanction to it.

Under this apprehension; reflecting, besides, that those troops were
engaged only for a short period, upon a very improper establishment to
continue, on account of the enormous pay to the private men; and that
the expense which is now shared by all, and which would have fallen
solely upon the State, had the application been complied with; would
probably be at the rate of nearly eighty thousand dollars per annum, a
considerable sum for the State in its present situation; I acknowledge
to your Excellency, that I saw with pleasure, rather than regret,
the turn which the affair took. I shall be sorry, however, if it has
contravened the intentions of the Legislature.

I will take the liberty to add, upon this occasion, that it has always
appeared to me of great importance, to this State in particular, as
well as to the Union in general, that Federal, rather than State,
provision should be made for the defence of every part of the
Confederacy, in peace as well as in war.

Without entering into arguments of general policy, it will be
sufficient to observe, that this State is, in all respects _critically
situated_.

Its relative position, shape, and intersections, viewed on the map,
strongly speak this language.--Strengthen the Confederation; give it
exclusively the power of the sword: let each State have no forces but
its militia.

As a question of mere economy, the following considerations deserve
great weight.

The North River facilitates attacks by sea and by land: and, besides
the frontier forts, all military men are of opinion, that a strong post
should be maintained at West Point, or some other position on the lower
part of the river.

If Canada is well governed, it may become well peopled, and by
inhabitants attached to its government. The British nation, while it
preserves the idea of retaining possession of that country, may be
expected to keep on foot there, a large force. The position of that
force, either for defence or offence, will necessarily be such as will
afford a prompt and easy access to us.

Our precautions for defence, must be proportioned to their means of
annoying us: and we may hereafter find it indispensable to increase our
frontier garrisons.

The present charge of a competent force in that quarter, thrown
additionally, into the scale of those contributions which we must make
to the payment of the public debt, and to other objects of general
expense, if the Union lasts, would, I fear, enlarge our burthen beyond
our ability: that charge, hereafter increased, as it may be, would be
oppressively felt by the people. It includes, not only the expense of
paying and subsisting the necessary number of troops, but of keeping
the fortifications in repair; probably of creating others; and of
furnishing the requisite supplies of military stores. I say nothing
of the Indian nations, because, though it will be always prudent to
be upon our guard against them, yet, I am of opinion we diminish the
necessity of it by making them our friends: and I take it for granted,
there cannot be a serious doubt, any where, as to the obvious policy of
endeavoring to do it. Their friendship, alone, can keep our frontiers
in peace. It is essential to the improvement of the fur trade; an
object of immense importance to the State. The attempt at the total
expulsion of so desultory a people, is as chimerical as it would be
pernicious. War with them is as expensive as it is destructive: it has
not a single object; for, the acquisitions of their lands is not to
be wished, till those now vacant are settled: and the surest, as well
as the most just and humane way of removing them, is by extending our
settlements to their neighborhood.

Indeed, it is not impossible they may be already willing to exchange
their former possessions for others more remote.

The foregoing considerations would lose all force, if we had full
security that the rest of the world would make our safety and
prosperity the first object of their reverence and care: but an
expectation of this kind would be too much against the ordinary course
of human affairs; too visionary to be a rule for national conduct.

It is true, our situation secures us from conquest, if internal
dissensions do not open the way: but when nations now make war upon
each other, the object seldom is total conquest. Partial acquisitions;
the jealousy of power; the rivalship of dominion, or of commerce;
sometimes national emulation and antipathy; are the motives.

Nothing shelters us from the operation of either of these causes.
The fisheries; the fur trade; the navigation of the lakes and of the
Mississippi; the western territory; the Islands of the West Indies,
with reference to traffic; in short, the passions of human nature,
are abundant sources of contention and hostility. I will not trespass
further on your Excellency’s patience. I expected, indeed, that my last
letter would have finished my official communications; but Messrs.
Duane and L’Hommedieu having transmitted the extract of your letter
to Mr. Floyd and myself, in order that we might comply with what your
Excellency thought would be expected by the Legislature, it became my
duty to give this explanation. Mr. Floyd having been at Congress but a
little time after the concurrent resolutions arrived, and being now at
a great distance from me, occasions a separate communication.

                                                 I have the honor to be,
                                                 With perfect respect,
                                                 Your Excellency’s
                                                 Most obedient servant,
                                                 A. Hamilton.

N. B. I did not at the time inclose the resolution, directing the
General to provide for garrisoning the frontier posts, because I
understood it would in course be transmitted to you by the President,
or the Secretary at War.

                                                                   A. H.

To his Excellency Governor Clinton.




MADISON TO HAMILTON.


                                   Princeton, October 16, 1783.

Dear Sir:

Your favor of the sixth of July, by some singular ill luck, never found
its way to my hands till yesterday evening.

The only part that now needs attention, is a request that I would
answer the following question: “What appeared to be my ideas and
disposition respecting the removal of Congress: did I appear to wish
to hasten it, or did I not rather show a strong disposition to
procrastinate it?” If this request had been received at the time it
ought, it might have been answered as fully as you then wished. Even
after the delay which has taken place, my recollection enables me, with
certainty, to witness, that the uniform strain of your sentiments, as
they appeared, both from particular conversations with myself, and
incidental ones with others in my presence, was opposed to the removal
of Congress, except in the last necessity; that when you finally
yielded to the measure, it appeared to be more in compliance with the
peremptory expostulations of others than with any disposition of your
own mind; and that after the arrival of Congress at Princeton, your
conversation showed that you reviewed the removal, rather with regret
than with pleasure.

Perhaps this obedience to your wishes may be too late to answer the
original object of them. But I could not omit such an opportunity of
testifying the esteem and regard with which I am

                                                Your obedient servant,
                                                J. Madison, Jr.

To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton, Esq.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                  Rocky Hill, October 18, 1783.

Dear Sir:

I am favored with your two letters of the thirtieth of September.

The debate on Indian affairs, which, I believe, is got through,
and that on the residence of Congress, which is yet in agitation,
have entirely thrown aside, for some time, the consideration of the
peace establishment. When it is resumed, I will take care that your
application comes into view; and shall be happy if any thing in my
power may contribute to its success; being, with great truth,

                                             Dear Sir,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             G. Washington.


To Colonel Hamilton.




McHENRY TO HAMILTON.


                                   Princeton, October 22, 1783.

Dear Hamilton:

The homilies you delivered in Congress are still recollected with
pleasure. The impressions they made are in favor of your integrity;
and no one but believes you a man of honor and republican principles.
Were you ten years older and twenty thousand pounds richer, there is
no doubt but that you might obtain the suffrages of Congress for the
highest office in their gift. You are supposed to possess various
knowledge, useful, substantial, and ornamental. Your very grave and
your cautious, your men who measure others by the standard of their
own creeping politics, think you sometimes intemperate, but seldom
visionary: and that were you to pursue your object with as much cold
perseverance as you do with ardor and argument, you would become
irresistible. In a word, if you could submit to spend a whole life
in dissecting a fly, you would be, in their opinion, one of the
greatest men in the world. Bold designs; measures calculated for their
rapid execution; a wisdom that would convince from its own weight; a
project that would surprise the people into greater happiness, without
giving them an opportunity to view it and reject it; are not adapted
to a council composed of discordant elements, or a people who have
thirteen heads, each of which pay superstitious adorations to inferior
divinities.

I have been deterred, from day to day, from sending you the extract you
desire, by a proclamation on the subject, which I expected would have
passed. It is still _in dubio_. I have reported on Fleury’s case, on
the principle you recommend. I fear his half-pay will not be granted.

Congress, some time ago, determined to fix their Federal town on the
Delaware, near Trenton. Yesterday they determined to erect a second
Federal town on the Potomac, near Georgetown; and to reside equal
periods (not exceeding one year) at Annapolis and Trenton, till the
buildings are completed. We adjourn the twelfth of next month, to meet
at Annapolis the twenty-sixth.

Adieu, my dear friend; and in the days of your happiness drop a line to
yours.

                                                 James McHenry.

P.S. Our exemplification of the Treaty has passed, and will be
transmitted to the State officially.

                                                        J. McH.

To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton, Esq.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                  Rocky Hill, November 6, 1783.

Dear Sir:

The inclosed is a letter which I had written, and was about to dispatch
at the date of it; but, upon second thoughts, determined to postpone
it, and try, if, from the importance of the matter, I could not bring
forward the peace establishment previously.

I have tried in vain. Congress, after resolving, on the ---- of last
month, to adjourn upon the twelfth of this, did, equally unexpectedly
and surprisingly to me, finish their session at this place the day
before yesterday; without bringing the peace establishment, or any of
the many other pressing matters, to a decision.

Finding this was likely to be the case, I showed your letter to some
of your particular friends; and consulted with them on the propriety
of making known your wishes with my testimonial of your services to
Congress; but they advised me to decline it, under a full persuasion
that no discrimination would, or indeed, could, be made at this late
hour, as every other officer, from the highest to the lowest grades
(not in actual command), were retiring without the retention of rank;
and that the remainder, upon a peace establishment (if a Continental
one should ever take place), would come in upon the new system, under
fresh appointments; so that unless you wished to come into actual
command again (which none supposed), they saw no way by which you could
preserve your rank.

I have the pleasure to inclose you a brevet, giving you the rank of
full Colonel.

                                             I am, dear Sir,
                                             Your most obedient servant,
                                             G. Washington.

To Colonel Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.


                                    New-York, December 8, 1783.

Sir:

Being concerned as counsel for a number of persons who have been,
since the annunciation of the provisional treaty, indicted under the
confiscation laws of this State, for the part they are supposed to have
taken in the late war, we are induced, at the desire of our clients,
and in their behalf, to apply to Congress, through your Excellency, for
an exemplification of the definitive treaty. We take it for granted,
that ere this it will have been         direction of the United States.
We have found a great strictness in the Courts in this State. It will,
we apprehend, be necessary to be able to produce an exemplification
of the treaty under the seal of the United States. In a matter so
interesting to a great number of individuals, for it does not belong
to us to urge considerations of national honor, we hope we shall be
excused when we observe, that there appears to be no probability that
the legislature of this State will interpose its authority to put
a stop to prosecutions, till the definitive treaty is announced in
form. In the mean time, a period is limited for the appearance of the
indicted persons to plead to their indictments, and if they neglect
to appear, judgment by default will be entered against them. It is
therefore of great consequence to them, that we should have in our
possession, as speedily as possible, an authentic document of the
treaty, and of its ratification by Congress; and we, on this account,
pray an exemplification of both.

We persuade ourselves that the justice and liberality of Congress will
induce a ready compliance with our prayer, which will conduce to the
security of a great number of individuals who derive their hopes of
safety from the national faith.

                           We have the honor to be with perfect respect,
                           Your Excellency’s
                           Most obedient and humble servants,
                           A. Hamilton & others.

  His Excellency
  The President of Congress.




HAMILTON TO J. B. CHURCH.


                                      New-York, March 10, 1784.

My Dear Sir:

In my last to you I informed you that a project for a land bank had
been set on foot by Mr. Sayre, as the ostensible parent; but that I
had reason to suspect the Chancellor was the true father. The fact has
turned out as I supposed, and the Chancellor, with a number of others,
have since petitioned the Legislature for an exclusive charter for the
proposed bank. I thought it necessary, not only with a view to your
project, but for the sake of the commercial interests of the State, to
start an opposition to this scheme; and took occasion to point out its
absurdity and inconvenience to some of the most intelligent merchants,
who presently saw the matter in a proper light, and began to take
measures to defeat the plan.

The Chancellor had taken so much pains with the country members,
that they all began to be persuaded that the land bank was the true
Philosopher’s stone that was to turn all their rocks and trees into
gold; and there was great reason to apprehend a majority of the
Legislature would have adopted his views. It became necessary to
convince the projectors themselves of the impracticability of their
scheme; and to counteract the impressions they had made by a direct
application to the Legislature. Some of the merchants, to effect these
purposes, set on foot a subscription for a money bank, and called upon
me to subscribe. I was a little embarrassed how to act, but upon the
whole I concluded it best to fall in with them, and endeavor to induce
them to put the business upon such a footing as might enable you, with
advantage, to combine your interests with theirs; for since the thing
had been taken up upon the broad footing of the whole body of the
merchants, it appeared to me that it never would be your interest to
pursue a distinct project in opposition to theirs; but that you would
prefer, so far as you might choose to employ money in this way, to
become purchasers in the general bank. The object, on this supposition,
was to have the bank founded on such principles as would give you a
proper weight in the direction. Unluckily, for this purpose, I entered
rather late into the measure: proposals had been agreed upon, in which,
among other things, it was settled that no stockholder, to whatever
amount, should have more than seven votes, which was the number to
which a holder of ten shares was to be entitled. At an after meeting
of some of the most influential characters, I engaged them so far to
depart from this ground, as to allow a vote for every five shares above
ten.

The stockholders have since thought proper to appoint me one of the
directors. I shall hold it till Wadsworth and you come out, and, if you
choose to become parties to this bank, I shall make a vacancy for one
of you. I inclose you the constitution, and the names of the President,
Directors, and Cashier.

An application for a charter has been made to the Legislature, with
a petition against granting an exclusive one to the land bank. The
measures which have been taken appear to have had their effect upon the
minds of the partisans of the land bank.

The affairs of the bank in Pennsylvania appear to be in some
confusion. They have stopped discounts; but I have no apprehension that
there is any thing more in the matter than temporary embarrassment from
having a little overshot their mark in their issues of paper, and from
the opposition which the attempt to establish a new bank had produced.

                                                   Yours affectionately,
                                                   A. Hamilton.

J. B. Church, Esq.




HAMILTON TO FITZSIMMONS.


                                      New-York, March 21, 1784.

Dear Sir:

Permit me to introduce to your acquaintance and attention Mr.
Seton, Cashier of the Bank of New-York. He is just setting out for
Philadelphia to procure materials and information in the forms of
business. I recommend him to you, because I am persuaded you will with
pleasure facilitate his object. Personally, I dare say you will be
pleased with him.

He will tell you of our embarrassments and prospects. I hope an
incorporation of the two banks, which is evidently the interest of
both, has put an end to differences in Philadelphia. Here a wild and
impracticable scheme of a land bank stands in our way; the projectors
of it persevering in spite of the experience they have, that all the
mercantile and moneyed influence is against it.

                                                   A. Hamilton.




WILLIAM SETON TO HAMILTON.


                                  Philadelphia, 27 March, 1784.

Dear Sir:

You will observe by my letter of this day to our President, that I have
been requested to postpone my visit to the bank until they shall be
well informed that the Bank of New-York has, or actually will, obtain
a charter. Although I am confident this is only an ostensible reason
for not wishing to see me at the bank, it will be highly necessary I
should be regularly informed of what is doing in this respect, that I
may be able to speak fully and with firmness to the subject; therefore,
exclusive of any letter the director may write to me, I trust you will
communicate to me whatever may appear to you essential for me to know.

The fact is (and which cannot be communicated to the many, and
therefore not mentioned in my official letter), their motive for not
wishing to see me at the bank just now, arises from their being at
present in very great confusion--the opposition of the new bank began
it, and being pressed so hard by this opposition, they were obliged
to lay themselves so open, that it evidently appeared, if carried
further, it would strike too fatal a blow. Therefore, for the safety
of the community at large, it became absolutely necessary to drop the
idea of a new bank, and to join hand in hand to relieve the old bank
from the shock it had received. Gold and silver had been extracted in
such amounts that discounting was stopped, and for this fortnight past
not any business has been done at the bank in this way. The distress
it has occasioned to those dependent on circulation and engaged in
large speculations, is severe; and, as if their cup of misery must
overflow, by the last arrival from Europe, intelligence is received
that no less a sum than £60,000 sterling of Mr. Morris’s bills, drawn
for the Dutch loan, are under protest. It is well known that the bank,
by some means or other, must provide for this sum. The child must not
desert its parent in distress, and, such is their connection, that
whatever is fatal to the one must be so to the other. However, the man
who has more than once, by his consummate abilities, saved the American
Empire from ruin, will no doubt be found equal to overcome these
temporary inconveniences, and to restore universal confidence and good
order. I trust you will be guarded in your conversation with others
on this subject, lest it might recoil on me, and not only place me in
a disagreeable situation, but defeat the purposes of my coming there.
I have had several interviews with our friend Gov. Morris; he is for
making the bank of New-York a branch of the bank of North America, but
we differ widely in our ideas of the benefit that would result from
such a connection.

If it will not be intruding too much upon your time and goodness, may
I request that you will now and then inform me what is doing by our
Legislature, and permit me to assure you, that it will ever give me
singular pleasure to have it in my power to evince the respect and
esteem with which

                                       I am, dear Sir,
                                       Your ob’t and very humble serv’t,
                                       Wm. Seton.

Alexander Hamilton, Esq.




HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.


                                       New-York, April 4, 1784.

Pardon me, my dear sir, for not sooner having obeyed your orders with
respect to the inclosed. I part with it reluctantly; for wit is so
rare an article, that when we get so much of it in so small a compass,
we cannot easily consent to be dispossessed of it. I am very happy to
hear of the union of your two Banks; for you will believe me when I
tell you, that, on more deliberate consideration, I was led to view
the competition in a different light from that in which it at first
struck me. I had no doubt that it was against the interests of the
proprietors; but, on a superficial view, I perceived benefits to the
community, which, on a more close inspection, I found were not real.

You will call our proceedings here _strange doings_. If some folks were
paid to counteract the prosperity of the State, they could not take
more effectual measures than they do. But it is in vain to attempt to
kick against the pricks.

Discrimination bills; partial taxes; schemes to engross public property
in the hands of those who have present power; to banish the real
wealth of the State, and to substitute paper bubbles; are the only
dishes that suit the public palate at this time.

Permit me to ask your opinion on a point of importance to the New-York
Bank--the best mode of receiving and paying out gold. I am aware of the
evils of that which has been practised upon in Philadelphia--_weighing
in quantities_; but I cannot satisfy myself about a substitute, unless
there could be a coinage.

Favor me with your sentiments on this subject as soon as you can.

Believe me, with equal warmth and sincerity,

                                                   Yours,
                                                   A. Hamilton.

To Gouverneur Morris, Esq.




HAMILTON TO DE CHASTELLUX.


                                       New-York, June 14, 1784.

Monsieur Le Chevalier:

Colonel Clarkeson, who will have the honor of delivering you this,
being already known to you, I give him this letter more for the sake
of renewing to you the assurances of my attachment and esteem, than
from a supposition that he will stand in need of any new title to
your attention. I will therefore only say of him, that his excellent
qualities cannot be known without interesting those to whom they are
known, and that from a personal and warm regard for him, I should be
happy, if any thing I could say, could be an additional motive for your
countenance and civilities to him.

I speak of him in the light of a friend. As the messenger of Science,
he cannot fail to acquire the patronage of one of her favorite
ministers. He combines with the views of private satisfaction, which a
voyage to Europe cannot but afford, an undertaking for the benefit of
a Seminary of learning, lately instituted in this State. Learning is
the common concern of mankind; and why may not poor republicans, who
can do little more than wish her well, send abroad to solicit the favor
of her patrons and friends? Her ambassador will tell you his errand.
I leave it to your mistress to _command_ and to the trustees of the
institution to _ask_ your interest in promoting his mission.

Permit me only to add, that if there is any thing in this country by
which I can contribute to your satisfaction, nothing will make me
happier at all times, than that your commands may enable me to give you
proofs of the respectful and affectionate attachment with which

                                       I have the honor to be,
                                       Monsieur Le Chevalier,
                                       Your most ob’t and humble serv’t,
                                       A. H.

Le Chevalier De Chastellux.




GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO HAMILTON.


                                   Philadelphia, June 30, 1784.

Dear Hamilton:

This is rather a late period to acknowledge yours of the seventh of
April. I have lived in the constant intention to answer it, and I
now execute my purpose. But why not sooner? “Procrastination is the
thief of time,” says Dr. Young. I meant to have written fully on the
subject of the gold. But I waited some informations from Annapolis on
the probability of a Mint. I afterwards intended a long letter upon
a subject I mentioned to Mr. Seton, namely, a coalition between your
Bank and the National Bank. I do not find either party inclined to it.
And yet both would be the better for it. You, I believe, will soon be
out of blast unless it should take place. I could say a great deal
on this subject, but it would be very useless. When you find your
cash diminish very fast, remind Seton of my predictions, and let him
tell you what they were. If the Legislature should attempt to force
paper money down your throats, it would be a good thing to be somewhat
independent of them. But I must check myself, or I shall go too far
into a business which would plague us both to no purpose. It shall be
left, therefore, until we meet.

                                              Very affectionately yours,
                                              Gouv. Morris.

Alexander Hamilton, Esq.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                                          Albany, Oct. 8, 1784.

Dear Hamilton:

       *       *       *       *       *

Several delays have retarded the opening of the Treaty; and when I
was upon the ground, it has been found that my influence with the
Indians, both friendly and hostile tribes, was much greater than the
Commissioners, and even myself, had conceived; so that I was requested,
even by every one of the tribes there, to speak to those nations. There
were some, more or less, from each tribe. I stayed as long as the
Commissioners thought I could do them some good; and that has rather
cramped my private plans of visits.

Now, my dear friend, I am going to Hartford, Boston, Newport; from
thence, by water, to Virginia, in order to save time; and about the
twentieth of next month I hope to be again with you in New-York: but
before that time will write you from Newport.

                                         Adieu, my dear Hamilton.
                                         Most affectionately I am yours,
                                         La Fayette.

P.S. I am told Mr. Jay is not determined upon accepting. I much wish he
may consent to it; the more so, as his probable successor does not hit
my fancy. Indeed, I very much wish Mr. Jay may accept the office.

To Colonel Hamilton.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                                         Boston, Oct. 22, 1784.

My Dear Hamilton:

Every step I move, there comes upon me a happy necessity to change my
plans. The reception I met with in Boston no words can describe; at
least it is impossible to express what I have felt. Gratitude as well
as propriety conspired with all other inducements to keep me here some
time longer. Rhode Island and New Hampshire I must visit, and intend
embarking by the first or second day of next month for Virginia, in
the Nymph frigate, which has been sent on my account. In less than
four weeks’ time from this day, I hope to be with Congress; and when
my business there is concluded, will come to New-York, where I hope we
will spend some days together. My stay in your city has been too short,
far inadequate to the feelings of my gratitude, and to the marks of
goodness bestowed upon me; but this time I will be some days longer
with my New-York friends.

Upon reflecting on my situation, my circumstances, my love for America,
and yet the motives that might render it improper for her to employ me
in a public capacity, I have confined myself to a plan which, at the
same time that it gratifies my attachment and serves the United States,
cannot have any shadow of inconvenience. After having told me they
know my zeal, I wish Congress to add, they want me to continue those
friendly, and, I might say, patriotic exertions; that in consequence
of it, their ministers at home, and their ministers abroad, will have
a standing order to look to me as one whose information and exertions
will ever be employed to the service of the United States; and when
they think it is wanted, to communicate with me upon the affairs of
America; that Congress will, whenever I think it proper, be glad of my
correspondence.

Upon that general scale, every minister may conceal from me what he
pleases, may write to me only when he pleases; and should he ever think
my assistance is wanting, he has a title to ask, I have one to give
it; and my connection with America is for ever kept, without giving
jealousy, upon such a footing as will remain at the disposition of each
public servant of Congress.

It seems to me, my dear friend, this idea already met with your
approbation. In case it does, do promote it with your delegates and
others. If it does not, write it to me by the bearer whom I send by
land to apologize to the General for my delays.

Our friend Knox has been most affectionate and kind to me.

                                                    Yours for ever,
                                                    La Fayette.

P.S. I have written to Wadsworth, and spoken to Bostonians respecting
the Baron’s affairs. I will do the same in Virginia, Maryland, and
elsewhere.

To Alexander Hamilton, Esq.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                                         Paris, April 13, 1785.

My Dear Hamilton:

Although I have just now written to McHenry, requesting him to impart
my Gazette to you, a very barren one indeed, I feel within myself a
want to tell you, I love you tenderly. Your brother Church has sailed
for America, since which I had a letter from his lady, who is in very
good health. By an old letter from our friend Greene, I have been
delighted to find he consents to send his son to be educated with mine;
the idea makes me very happy. I wish, dear Hamilton, you would honor
me with the same mark of your friendship and confidence. As there is
no fear of a war, I intend visiting the Prussian and Austrian troops.
In one of your New-York Gazettes, I find an association against the
slavery of negroes, which seems to me worded in such a way as to give
no offence to the moderate men in the southern States. As I ever have
been partial to my brethren of that color, I wish, if you are one in
the society, you would move, in your own name, for my being admitted on
the list. My best respects wait on Mrs. Hamilton. Adieu.

                                               Your affectionate friend,
                                               La Fayette.




JOHN ADAMS TO HAMILTON.


                       Grosvenor-Square, London, Oct. 19, 1785.

Sir:

At the instance of Mr. Hartley, in behalf of his friend, Mr. Francis
Upton, I advised Mr. Upton to apply to some counsellor in New-York,
and particularly to Mr. Hamilton, whose reputation was known to me,
although his person was not.

Mr. Hartley now requests for Mr. Upton a letter of introduction. As a
total stranger, but by character, it would be very difficult to find a
pretence to excuse the liberty I take in presenting Mr. Upton to you,
and recommending his case to your attention. But, as we say at the bar,
where I wish I was, _valeat quantum valere potest._ With much esteem,

                             I have the honor to be, Sir,
                             Your most obedient and most humble servant,
                             John Adams.

Mr. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO WILKES.


                                                      November, 8, 1785.

Sir:

The message which you sent me yesterday, and your letter to-day,
were conceived in terms to which I am little accustomed. Were I to
consult my feelings only upon the occasion, I should return an
answer very different from that which I have, in justice to my own
conduct, resolved upon. But in whatever light we are to view each
other hereafter, and however harsh and indelicate I may think the
method you have taken to obtain an explanation to be, I shall, for
my own part, leave no room to suppose that I intentionally gave you
any cause to complain. I shall, therefore, explicitly declare, that
whatever inattention may have appeared towards you, was solely owing
to the continual hurry in which my engagements, for a long time past,
have kept me; and that, so far from its having been occasioned by
any designed neglect, it was what, under the circumstances, might
have happened to my best friend. Indeed, much of what you mention to
have been done by you, I am a stranger to. The frequent callings, by
yourself and by your servant, did not, that I recollect, come to my
knowledge. It is possible some of them might have been mentioned to
me, and, in the hurry of my mind, forgotten. Once, I remember, I saw
your servant just as I was going out on some urgent business. I sent
a verbal message, promising that I would see you; which I intended
to do, as soon as I had made up my resolution on the business of the
interview. When I received your note I was about sending you an answer
in writing; but, upon inquiring for your servant, and finding him gone,
I omitted it, with an intention to see you personally.

You say it is near six months since you first applied to me on the
business in question. A great part of the time I gave you all the
answer I could give you; to wit, that I had written to Mr. Macaulay,
and only waited his answer. About two months since, I received it. I
have been the greater part of the time out of town on indispensable
business. In the intervals I have been occupied about objects of
immediate and absolute necessity, which could not have been delayed
without letting my business run into utter confusion. Mr. Macaulay’s
concerns have been hanging upon my spirits. I have been promising
myself, from day to day, to bring them to a conclusion; but more
pressing objects have unavoidably postponed it. I thought the delay
required some apology to Mr. Macaulay, but I never dreamt of having
given occasion of offence to you.

I will not, however, deny, upon a review of what has passed, that there
have been, through hurry and inadvertency on my part, appearances
of neglect towards you; but between gentlemen and men of business,
unfavorable conclusions ought not to be drawn before explanations are
asked. Allowances ought to be made for the situations of parties; and
the omissions of men, deeply involved in business, ought rather to be
ascribed to that cause than to ill intentions.

Had you, in the first instance, expressed to me (in such a manner
as respect for yourself and delicacy to me dictated) your sense of
these appearances, I should have taken pains to satisfy you that
nothing improper towards you was intended by me. But to make one of
my clerks the instrument of communication, and the bearer to me of a
harsh accusation, was ill-judged and ungenteel. To take it for granted
that you had received an injury from me, without first giving me an
opportunity of an explanation, and to couch your sense of it in terms
so offensive as some of those used in your letter, is an additional
instance of precipitation and rudeness.

Inadvertencies susceptible of misapprehension, I may commit; but I
am incapable of intending to wound or injure any man who has given
me no cause for it; and I am incapable of doing any thing, sir, of
which I need be ashamed. The intimation, on your part, is unmerited
and unwarrantable. After thus having explained my own conduct to
you, and given you my ideas of yours, it will depend on yourself how
far I shall be indifferent, or not, to your future sentiments of my
character. I shall only add, that to-morrow you shall receive from me
my determination on the matter of business between us.

                                      I am, with due consideration, Sir,
                                      Your most obedient servant,
                                      A. Hamilton.


To John Wilkes, Esq.




WILKES TO HAMILTON.


                                                       November 9, 1785.

Sir:

The moment I received yours, I perceived the precipitancy of my own
conduct, and was very sorry I had so far mistaken both our characters
to act in the manner I have done. I flatter myself, that the same
candor which has dictated yours, will be exerted towards mine, and
that you will only view it as the act of a man who conceived himself
injured. As you have never experienced the cruel reverses of fortune,
you can scarcely judge how the least insinuations to their prejudice
will affect those persons who have; or how much more suspicious they
are of the behavior of mankind towards them.

The morning I left the message for you, I had been called upon by one
of the creditors of Mr. Heart, who thought it very strange no dividend
was made; and he insinuated, some party must be interested in the
delay. It is the first money transaction I have engaged in since my
release. I felt the insinuation as alluding to me, and with a force,
which, perhaps, I should not. However, that moment I went to your
office.

The next morning, when I saw your note to Mr. Atkinson, and found
myself totally set aside in a business where I had, most undoubtedly,
been originally neglected, I felt myself very much agitated; and in
that frame of mind I wrote my last to you.

So much I thought it necessary to add in explanation.

I am convinced, now, I have been too hasty; and I am sorry for it. It
will put me on my guard in future, and I make no doubt prove beneficial
to me, provided it has not been the means of hurting me in your
estimation, which I am now more desirous than ever of obtaining.

                                              I am, Sir, with respect,
                                              Your much obliged,
                                              And most obedient servant,
                                              John Wilkes.


To Colonel Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                                      November 23, 1785.

Dear Sir:

Major Fairly is just setting out on a visit to you, I believe on some
business relating to the Cincinnati. The society of this State met some
short time since, and took into consideration the proposed alterations
in the original frame of the Institution: some were strenuous for
adhering to the old Constitution, a few for adopting the new, and many
for a middle line. This disagreement of opinion, and the consideration
that the different State societies pursuing different courses--some
adopting the alterations entire; others rejecting them in the same way;
others adopting in part and rejecting in part--might beget confusion
and defeat good purposes, induced a proposal, which was unanimously
agreed to, that a committee should be appointed to prepare and lay
before the society, a circular letter, expressive of the sense of
the society on the different alterations proposed, and recommending
the giving powers to a general meeting of the Cincinnati, to make
such alterations as might be thought advisable, to obviate objections
and promote the interests of the society. I believe there will be no
difficulty in agreeing to change the present mode of continuing the
society; but it appears to be the wish of our members, that some other
mode may be defined and substituted, and that it might not be left to
the uncertainty of legislative provision. We object, too, to putting
the funds under legislative direction. Indeed, it appears to us, the
Legislatures will not, at present, be inclined to give us any sanction.

I am of the committee: and I cannot but flatter myself, that when the
object is better digested, and more fully explained, it will meet your
approbation.

The poor _Baron_ is still soliciting Congress, and has every prospect
of indigence before him. He has his imprudences; but, upon the whole,
he has rendered valuable services; and his merits and the reputation of
the country, alike, demand that he should not be left to suffer want.

If there could be any mode by which your influence could be employed in
his favor, by writing to your friends in Congress, or otherwise, the
Baron and his friends would be under great obligations to you.

                                            I have the honor to be,
                                            With sincere esteem,
                                            Your ob’t and humble serv’t,
                                            Alex. Hamilton.

To His Excellency General Washington.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                               Mount Vernon, December 11, 1785.

Dear Sir:

I have been favored with your letter of the twenty-third of November,
by Major Fairly.

Sincerely do I wish that the several State societies had, or would
adopt the alterations that were recommended by the general meeting, in
May, seventeen hundred and eighty-four. I then thought, and have had no
cause since to change my opinion, that if the society of the Cincinnati
mean to live in peace with the rest of their fellow-citizens, they must
subscribe to the alterations which were at that time adopted.

That the jealousies of, and prejudices against, this society, were
carried to an unwarrantable length, I will readily grant; and that
_less_ than was done, _ought_ to have removed the fears which had been
imbibed, I am as clear in, as I am that it would not have done it.
But it is a matter of little moment, whether the alarm which seized
the public mind was the result of foresight, envy, and jealousy, or
a disordered imagination: the effect of perseverance would have been
the same. Wherein, then, would have been found an equivalent for the
separation of interests which (from my best information, not from one
State only, but many) would inevitably have taken place?

The fears of the people are not yet removed; they only sleep; and a
very little matter will set them afloat again. Had it not been for
the predicament we stood in with respect to the foreign officers and
the charitable part of the Institution, I should, on that occasion,
as far as my voice would have gone, have endeavored to convince the
narrow-minded part of our countrymen, that the _amor patriæ_ was much
stronger in our breasts than theirs, and that our conduct, through
the whole of the business, was actuated by nobler and more generous
sentiments than were apprehended, by abolishing the society at once,
with a declaration of the causes, and the purity of its intention. But
the latter may be interesting to many, and the former is an insuperable
bar to such a step.

I am sincerely concerned to find, by your letter, that the Baron is
again in straitened circumstances. I am much disinclined to ask favors
of Congress; but if I knew what the object of his wishes are, I should
have much pleasure in rendering him any service in my power, with such
members of that body as I now and then correspond with. I had flattered
myself, from what was told me some time ago, that Congress had made a
final settlement with the Baron much to his satisfaction.

                                      I am, dear Sir,
                                      Your most obedient humble servant,
                                      G. Washington.

To Alex. Hamilton, Esq.




HAMILTON TO NATHANIEL HAZARD.


                                                         April 24, 1786.

Sir:

Your letter of the twenty-first was only delivered me this morning. The
good opinion of liberal men I hold in too high estimation not to be
flattered by that part of your letter which relates to me personally.
The other part I have communicated to General Schuyler, and he assures
me he will see all his friends this afternoon upon the subject; so that
I have no doubt, as far as his influence extends, it will be employed
in favor of the success of the bill in the Assembly, as it has already
been in the Senate.

In taking this step, however, I would not be understood to declare
any opinion concerning the principles of the bill, with which I am
not sufficiently acquainted to form a decided opinion. I have merely
made your letter the occasion of introducing the subject to General
Schuyler, whose sentiments are as favorable to your wishes as you could
desire.

I make this observation from that spirit of candor which I hope will
always direct my conduct. I am aware that I have been represented as
an enemy to the wishes of what you call your corps. If by this has
been meant that I do not feel as much as any man, not immediately
interested, for the distresses of those merchants who have been in
a great measure the victims of the Revolution, the supposition does
not do justice either to my head or my heart. But if it means that I
have always viewed the mode of relieving them as a matter of peculiar
delicacy and difficulty, it is well founded.

I should have thought it unnecessary to enter into this explanation,
were it not that I am held up as a candidate at the ensuing election;
and I would not wish that the step I have taken, in respect to your
letter, should be considered as implying more than it does; for I would
never wish to conciliate at the expense of candor. On the other hand,
I confide in your liberality not to infer more than I intend from the
explanation I have given; and hope you will believe me to be, with
great cordiality and esteem,

                                                  Dear Sir,
                                                  Your obedient servant,
                                                  A. Hamilton.


To Mr. Hazard.




CUSHING, DANA, AND BRECK TO HAMILTON.


                                      New-York, Sept. 10, 1786.

Gentlemen:

Understanding, on our arrival in this city last Friday evening, that
you had gone on for the Convention at Annapolis the week past, we
take the liberty to acquaint you, and beg you to communicate to the
Convention, if it should be opened before we arrive there, that we
shall set off from this place to-morrow to join them, as Commissioners
from the State of Massachusetts, which we hope to do in the course of
this week. The Commissioners from Philadelphia were to sail from thence
for this city, on the seventh instant, so that they may be expected
soon after us.

                                     With great respect,
                                     Your most obedient humble servants,
                                     Thomas Cushing.
                                     F. T. H. Dana.
                                     Saml. Breck.

  The Gentlemen
  Commissioners for New-York.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                                         Paris, April 12, 1787.

My Dear Hamilton:

It is an age since I heard from you. Of you I hear by some of our
friends, and in the newspapers. But although I have a right to
complain, I want to let you know the proceedings of our Assembly,
which, as it is unusual in France, may raise your curiosity.

Our Constitution is pretty much what it was in England before it had
been fairly written down and minutely preserved; so that we have great
claims to freedom, to a National Representation, to the denial of
taxes, &c., &c. But disposition on one hand, and levity on the other
have manœuvred us out of almost every privilege. They will still
subsist, however, more or less, in some provinces, and particularly in
those of Bretagne.

Now that the follies of Courts had obliged Government to saddle us with
new taxes, and the opposition of our magistrates did present itself
as an obstacle to the ministers, they have thought proper to call an
Assembly of Notables, chosen by the king, but taken among the first
people in _each_ order, and to begin with granting them what is more
wished for by the nation, an Assembly in each Province.

The last Assembly of Notables, in 1626, had been obedient to the
ministers. This one came at a more enlightened period. It happened
under a minister, who, although he has parts, is not equal to some of
the members--men of fine abilities. We are backed by the nation, and
although not her representatives, have behaved as her interpreters, and
we have formed a great majority in favor of popular measures.

The speeches from the throne, those of M. de Calonne, have been
printed: the last one contains many falsehoods. The first measure
we took was for the clergy to declare they were ready to pay in the
same proportion with other people, for the Noblesse to make the same
declaration, and reject a pecuniary privilege that was offered, in lieu
of the other that is taken off.

We have gratefully accepted the provincial elective assemblies, but
have united on such alterations as will invigorate them. M. de Calonne
had made a mixture of democracy and despotism which did annihilate
those checks and gradations that are necessary evils, wherever there is
a king. But I think the provincial assemblies, as they are proposed by
us, may lay a foundation for a good building.

Several plans for the removal of internal Custom offices, for the
free exportation of corn, for the change in the salt tax, for the
annihilation of some duties, and now for the disposal of the king’s
domanial possessions, have been examined, and underwent several
alterations. To some we have only left the titles of the chapters, but
changed them, in my opinion, much for the better.

The idea of a general tax in kind, was proposed by the government,
but we said it was not practicable. As to any new imposition, we have
answered, it is impossible to form an opinion before we know the return
of the exports of the two last years, and the plans of economy that
are intended. We have not, it is true, any powers from the nation,
but our opinion is asked, and in a measure has become necessary, and
a majority of us do not think their opinion can be given, until those
preliminaries are fulfilled.

There is a very interesting contrast between the king’s power at
Versailles, and the opposition of that Assembly which is held there,
and divided in seven committees of twenty, or twenty-two each, presided
by a prince of the blood. Hitherto we have not voted in a General
Assembly, although we had some to hear the Minister. But the opinions
of the committees only are now taken, and in the end each vote will be
pronounced in the whole house, beginning from the last up to the first
in rank. You know that we have the Clergy, Magistracy, Noblesse, and
Tiers Etat.

At the last meeting we had before the recess of these holidays, I had
a personal battle of some importance. The king’s domanial property has
been a pretence to lavish money on the princes of the blood, favorites,
and the powerful people of the country. I had the day before moved for
an examination of those bargains, wherein more than fifty millions have
been thrown away. The great people being afraid of being found out,
and particularly M. de Calonne, who is guilty of the most indecent
depredation, thought they must intimidate me and the Bishop of Langres,
M. de la Luzerne’s brother, who had seconded my motion. They, in
consequence of it, persuaded the king to have us told by his brother,
our president, that such motions ought to be signed. Upon which, we
signed the inclosed paper; and the bishop said, that after the rents,
he would bring in some accounts, signed by him, of the bargain of
sinecure, made by M. de Calonne. The king was very angry with me; M.
de Calonne, who had his confidence, intended signal revenge. I was
preparing to support what I had said, when we suddenly heard that M. de
Calonne had been dismissed. The keeper of the seal was also sent off.
I am glad we got rid of M. de Calonne; and with his successor, who,
unfortunately, is an old broken man, may improve the opportunity of
this Assembly, and let us make useful arrangements.

Adieu, my dear Hamilton; my best respects wait on Mrs. Hamilton.
Remember me to Gen. Knox, Wadsworth--all our friends, and particularly
the good doctor.

                                              Most affectionately yours,
                                              La Fayette.

P. S. Don’t tell the French Chargé d’Affairs that you have this paper
from me, except that there is nothing in it, for topics have spread
every _where_.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                        New-York, July 3, 1787.

Dear Sir:

In my passage through the Jerseys, and since my arrival here, I have
taken particular pains to discover the public sentiment, and I am
more and more convinced that this is the critical opportunity for
establishing the prosperity of this country on a solid foundation. I
have conversed with men of information, not only of this city, but from
different parts of the State; and they agree that there has been an
astonishing revolution for the better in the minds of the people.

The prevailing apprehension among thinking men is, that the Convention,
from the fear of shocking the popular opinion, will not go far enough.
They seem to be convinced, that a strong, well-mounted government will
better suit the popular palate, than one of a different complexion.
Men in office are, indeed, taking all possible pains to give an
unfavorable impression of the Convention; but the current seems to be
moving strongly the other way.

A plain, but sensible man, in a conversation I had with him yesterday,
expressed himself nearly in this manner:--The people begin to be
convinced that “their excellent form of government,” as they have been
used to call it, will not answer their purpose, and that they must
substitute something not very remote from that which they have lately
quitted.

These appearances, though they will not warrant a conclusion that
the people are yet ripe for such a plan as I advocate, yet serve to
prove that there is no reason to despair of their adopting one equally
energetic, if the Convention should think proper to propose it. They
serve to prove that we ought not to allow too much weight to objections
drawn from the supposed repugnance of the people to an efficient
constitution. I confess, I am more and more inclined to believe, that
former habits of thinking are regaining their influence with more
rapidity than is generally imagined.

Not having compared ideas with you, sir, I cannot judge how far our
sentiments agree; but, as I persuade myself, the genuineness of my
representations will receive credit with you. My anxiety for the
event of the deliberations of the Convention, induces me to make this
communication of what appears to be the tendency of the public mind.

I own to you, sir, that I am seriously and deeply distressed at the
aspect of the counsels which prevailed when I left Philadelphia. I fear
that we shall let slip the golden opportunity of rescuing the American
Empire from disunion, anarchy, and misery.

No motley or feeble measure can answer the end, or will finally receive
the public support. Decision is true wisdom, and will be not less
reputable to the Convention, than salutary to the community.

I shall of necessity remain here ten or twelve days. If I have reason
to believe that my attendance at Philadelphia will not be mere waste of
time, I shall, after that period, rejoin the Convention.

                                                   A. Hamilton.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                 Philadelphia, 10th July, 1787.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your communication of the 3d. When I refer you to the
state of the councils which prevailed at the period you left this city,
and add that they are now, if possible, in a worse train than ever; you
will find but little ground on which the hope of a good establishment
can be formed. In a word, I _almost_ despair of seeing a favorable
issue to the proceedings of the Convention, and do, therefore, repent
having any agency in the business.

The men who oppose a strong and energetic government are in my opinion
narrow-minded politicians, or are under the influence of local views.
The apprehension expressed by them, that the _people_ will not accede
to the form proposed, is the _ostensible_, not the _real_, cause of
the opposition; but admitting that the _present_ sentiment is as they
prognosticate, the question ought nevertheless to be, is it or is it
not the best form? If the former, recommend it, and it will assuredly
obtain, maugre opposition.

I am sorry you went away; I wish you were back. The crisis is equally
important and alarming, and no opposition under such circumstances
should discourage exertions, till the signature is fixed. I will not at
this time trouble you with more than my best wishes and sincere regards.

                                                 I am, dear Sir,
                                                 Your obedient servant,
                                                 G. Washington.

Alexander Hamilton, Esq.




HAMILTON TO ----


                                          New-York, ----, 1787.

Dear Sir:

Agreeably to what passed between us, I have had an interview with Mr.
Auldjo, and I flatter myself if there is (as I doubt not there will
be) as much moderation on the part of Major Peirce as there appears
to be on that of Mr. Auldjo, that the affair between them may yet be
amicably terminated.

But Mr. Auldjo observes, I confess in my opinion with propriety, that
he ought to know with some precision the matters which have given
offence to Major Peirce, before he can enter into explanations; which
he declares himself to be very ready to do with coolness and candor,
the moment he shall be enabled to do it by a specification of the
subjects of complaint. If a personal interview is for any reason
disagreeable to Major Peirce, I entreat you, my dear sir, to obtain
from him, and to communicate to me by letter, the substance of what has
occasioned his dissatisfaction, with so much particularity only as will
put it in the power of Mr. Auldjo to give an explicit answer. Major
Peirce will, I hope, have no scruples about this, for as the door of
explanation has been opened by Mr. Auldjo, there is no punctilio which
stands in his way; and I trust he will feel the force of a sentiment
which prudence and humanity equally dictate, that extremities ought
then only to ensue when, after a fair experiment, accommodation has
been found impracticable. An attention to this principle interests the
characters of both the gentlemen concerned, and with them our own; and
from every other consideration, as well as that of personal friendship
to the parties, I sincerely wish to give it its full operation. I am
convinced you are not less anxious to effect this than myself; and I
trust our joint endeavors will not prove unsuccessful.

                                        I remain with sincere regard,
                                        Dear Sir, your obedient servant,
                                        Alex. Hamilton.

I cannot, however, conclude without making one remark. Though Mr.
Auldjo has expressed and still entertains a desire of explanation,
it would ill become him to solicit it. Whatever, therefore, in my
expressions may seem to urge such an explanation with the earnestness
of entreaty, must be ascribed to my own feelings, and to that
inclination which every man of sensibility must feel, not to see
extremities take place if it be in his power to prevent them, or until
they become an absolutely necessary sacrifice to public opinion.

                                        I remain with sincere regard,
                                        Dear Sir, your obedient servant,
                                        A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO AULDJO.


                                       New-York, July 26, 1787.

Sir:

I have delivered the paper you committed to me, as it stood altered, to
Major Peirce, from whose conduct I am to conclude the affair between
you is at an end. He informs me that he is shortly to set out on a
jaunt up the North River.

As you intimate a wish to have my sentiments in writing on the
transaction, I shall with pleasure declare that the steps you have
taken in consequence of Mr. Peirce’s challenge have been altogether
in conformity to my opinion of what would be prudent, proper, and
honorable on your part. They seem to have satisfied Mr. Peirce’s
scruples arising from what he apprehended in some particulars to have
been your conduct to him, and I presume we are to hear nothing further
of the matter.

                                       I remain with great esteem, Sir,
                                       Your obedient and humble servant,
                                       Alex. Hamilton.

To Mr. Auldjo.




HAMILTON TO RUFUS KING.


                                     New-York, August 20, 1787.

Dear Sir:

Since my arrival here, I have written to my colleagues, informing
them if either of them would come down, I would accompany him to
Philadelphia; so much for the sake of propriety and public opinion.
In the mean time, if any material alteration should happen to be made
in the plan now before the Convention, I will be obliged to you for a
communication of it. I will also be obliged to you to let me know when
your conclusion is at hand, for I would choose to be present at that
time.




HAMILTON TO WADSWORTH.


                                                        August 20, 1787.

My Dear Sir:

The inclosed is said to be the copy of a letter circulating in your
State. The history of its appearance among us is, that it was sent
by one _Whitmore_ of Stratford, formerly in the Paymaster General’s
office, to one James Reynolds of this city.

I am at a loss clearly to understand its object, and have some
suspicion, that it has been fabricated to excite jealousy against the
Convention, with a view to an opposition to their recommendations. At
all events, I wish, if possible, to trace its source, and send it to
you for that purpose.

Whitmore must of course say where he got it, and by pursuing the
information we may at last come at the author. Let me know the
political connections of this man, and the complexion of the people
most active in the circulation of the letter. Be so good as to attend
to this inquiry somewhat particularly, as I have different reasons of
some moment for setting it on foot.

                                                   I remain, &c.
                                                   A. Hamilton.

To Jeremiah Wadsworth.




COL. WADSWORTH TO HAMILTON.


                                     Hartford, August 26, 1787.

My Dear Sir:

I received your favor this day, with the inclosed copy of a letter,
said to be circulating in this State. Some time since a paragraph
in the New Haven papers hinted at such a letter, and appeared to be
written to secure the Anti-federal party or alarm them. And I believed
it was well intended, as it seemed to be meant to prepare them to
comply with the doings of the Convention, lest worse befell them; but
the close of the letter appears to be calculated for other purposes.
Wetmore has always associated with men who wished well to America, and
a good Government. He is half-brother to the spirited Federal writer
in our papers, who signs himself Cato; and if he has really written
or circulated the letter in question, I am quite at a loss to know
his intentions. I have communicated this matter to Col. Humphreys, in
confidence, who is on his way to New Haven, where Wetmore lives, though
formerly of Hartford. He will inquire carefully into the matter, and
write you. He has lived in the same town with Wetmore, and can easily
fathom him. Wetmore is naturally sanguine, has some talents, and I
believe, is enterprising, but fickle. Who the active people in this
business are, I have yet to learn, as it certainly has not circulated
hereabouts. But from Humphreys you may expect to know all that is
true, in Wetmore’s neighborhood. I have always been Humphreys’ friend,
but a nearer acquaintance with him convinces me he is a man of great
integrity, and such talents as would wear well in any employment of
confidence. If he comes to New-York I wish you to be more acquainted
with him.

                                               I am, dear Sir,
                                               Your very humble servant,
                                               Jerh. Wadsworth.




HAMILTON TO RUFUS KING.


                                     New-York, August 28, 1787.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you, some days since, to request you to inform me when there
was a prospect of your finishing, as I intended to be with you, for
certain reasons, before the conclusion. It is whispered here, that some
late changes in your scheme have taken place, which give it a higher
tone. Is this the case? I leave town to-day to attend a circuit in a
neighboring county, from which I shall return the last of the week, and
shall be glad to find a line from you, explanatory of the period of the
probable termination of your business.




COLONEL HUMPHREYS TO HAMILTON.


                                     New Haven, Sept. 16, 1787.

My Dear Sir:

Our friend Col. Wadsworth has communicated to me a letter, in which
you made inquiries respecting a political letter that has lately
circulated in this State. I arrived in this town yesterday, and have
since conversed with several intelligent persons on the subject. It
appears to have been printed in a Fairfield paper as long ago as the
25th of July. I have not been able to trace it to its source. Mr.
Wetmore informs me, that when he first saw this letter it was in the
hands of one Jared Mansfield, who, I believe, has formerly been reputed
a Loyalist. Indeed it seems to have been received and circulated with
avidity by that class of people, whether it was fabricated by them or
not. I think, however, there is little doubt that it was manufactured
in this State. I demanded of Mr. Wetmore what he thought were the
wishes and objects of the writer of that letter. He said, he believed
it might be written principally for the amusement of the author, and
perhaps with some view to learn whether the people were not absolutely
indifferent to all government and dead to all political sentiment.

Before I saw the letter in question, a paragraph had been published
by Mr. Meigs, giving an account of it, and attempting to excite the
apprehensions of the Anti-federalists, with an idea, that the most
disastrous consequences are to be expected, unless we shall accept the
proceedings of the Convention. Some think this was the real design of
the fictitious performance, but others, with more reason, that it was
intended to feel the public pulse, and to discover whether the public
mind would be startled with propositions of Royalty. The quondam tories
have undoubtedly conceived hopes of a future union with Great Britain,
from the inefficacy of our Government, and the tumults which prevailed
in Massachusetts during the last winter. I saw a letter, written at
that period, by a Clergyman of considerable reputation in Nova Scotia,
to a person of eminence in this State, stating the impossibility of our
being happy under our present Constitution, and proposing (now we could
think and argue calmly on all the consequences) that the efforts of the
moderate, the virtuous, and the brave, should be exerted to effect a
reunion with the parent State. He mentioned, among other things, how
instrumental the Cincinnati might be, and how much it would redound to
their emolument. It seems, by a conversation I have had here, that the
ultimate practicability of introducing the Bishop of Osnaburgh is not a
novel idea among those who were formerly termed Loyalists. Ever since
the peace it has been occasionally talked of and wished for. Yesterday,
where I dined, half jest--half earnest--he was given as the first toast.

I leave you now, my dear friend, to reflect how ripe we are for the
most mad and ruinous project that can be suggested, especially when,
in addition to this view, we take into consideration how thoroughly
the patriotic part of the community--the friends of an efficient
Government, are discouraged with the present system, and irritated at
the popular demagogues who are determined to keep themselves in office,
at the risk of every thing. Thence apprehensions are formed, that
though the measures proposed by the Convention, may not be equal to the
wishes of the most enlightened and virtuous, yet that they will be too
high-toned to be adopted by our popular assemblies. Should that happen,
our political ship will be left afloat on a sea of chance, without a
rudder as well as without a pilot.

I am happy to see you have (some of you) had the honest boldness
to attack in a public paper, the Anti-federal dogmas of a great
personage in your State. Go on and prosper. Were the men of talents
and honesty, throughout the Continent, properly combined into one
phalanx, I am confident they would be competent to hew their way
through all opposition. Were there no little jealousies, bickerings
and unworthy sinister views, to divert them from their object, they
might by perseverance, establish a Government calculated to promote the
happiness of mankind, and to make the Revolution a blessing instead of
a curse.

I think it is probable that I shall soon go to the southward; in the
mean time, I beg you to be persuaded that I am, with sentiments of
sincere friendship and esteem,

                              My dear Hamilton,
                              Your most obedient and most humble serv’t,
                              D. Humphreys.

Col. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                                                   1787.

Dear Sir:

You probably saw, some time since, some animadversions on certain
expressions of Governor Clinton, respecting the Convention. You may
have seen a piece, signed “A Republican,” attempting to bring the fact
into question, and endeavoring to controvert the conclusions drawn from
it, if true. My answer you will find in the inclosed. I trouble you
with it merely from that anxiety, which is natural to every man, to
have his veracity at least stand in a fair light. The matter seems to
be given up by the Governor, and the fact, with the inferences from it,
stand against him in full force, and operate as they ought to do.

It is, however, of some importance to the party to diminish whatever
credit or influence I may possess, and to effect this, they stick at
nothing. Among many contemptible artifices practised by them, they
have had recourse to an insinuation, that I _palmed_ myself upon you,
and that you _dismissed_ me from your family. This I confess hurts my
feelings, and if it obtains credit, will require a contradiction. You,
sir, will undoubtedly recollect the manner in which I came into your
family, and went out of it; and know how destitute of foundation such
insinuations are. My confidence in your justice will not permit me to
doubt your readiness to put the matter in its true light in your answer
to this letter. It cannot be my wish to give any complexion to the
affair which might excite the least scruple in you; but I confess it
would mortify me to lie under the imputation, either of having obtruded
myself into the family of a General, or of having been turned out of it.

The new Constitution is as popular in this city as it is possible
for any thing to be, and the prospect thus far is favorable to it
throughout the State. But there is no saying what turn things may take
when the full flood of official influence is let loose against it. This
is to be expected; for though the Governor has not publicly declared
himself, his particular connections and confidential friends are loud
against it.

Mrs. Hamilton joins in respectful compliments to Mrs. Washington.

                                     I remain with perfect esteem,
                                     Your Excellency’s obedient servant,
                                     A. Hamilton.




LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.


                                       Paris, October 15, 1787.

My Dear Hamilton:

While you have been attending your most important Convention, debates
were also going on in France respecting the constitutional rights, and
matters of that kind. Grave reforms are taking place at court. The
parliaments are remonstrating, and our provincial assemblies begin to
pop out. Amidst many things that were not much to the purpose, some
good principles have been laid out; and, although our affairs have
a proper arrangement, the nation will not in the last be the loser.
The prime minister is a man of candor, honesty, and abilities. But
now the rumor of war sets us a-going. Not that France is wishing for
it, and Great Britain ought to be satisfied with an advantageous
treaty of commerce, and the profit of hers and Prussia’s treachery in
Holland. But, while I consider the madness of the Turks, the movements
of the Imperial Court, the folly of his Prussian Majesty, the late
catastrophe in Holland, and the cry of England for war, I hardly think
that the peaceful dispositions of this ministry--and, they say, of
Mr. Pitt--will be able to extinguish a fire that is catching in every
corner of Europe. It would be consistent with my inclination and best
views that America be engaged in an active co-operation. But as I do
not think it consistent with her interest, I have taken the liberty
to express my ideas in an official letter to Mr. Jay, to whom I refer
you. It seems to me, that a friendly, helping neutrality, would be
useful to France, profitable to the United States, and perfectly safe
on the footing of the treaties. Should America be forced to war, I wish
it would be for the last campaign--time enough to occupy Canada and
Newfoundland. But I see no inconvenience in privateering with French
letters of marque.

Inclosed is the journal of a preliminary assembly in Auvergne. I am
returning there as soon as we have done some arrangements respecting
American commerce, which will result on as good footing in this kingdom
as it is for the moment possible. The ministry are more favorably
disposed.

I hope you will be satisfied with Count de Maurice and the Countess
de Brehan, his sister-in-law. I beg leave to introduce them both to
you and Mrs. Hamilton, to whom I offer my most affectionate regards.
Remember me to the rest of the family and all friends. My best
compliments wait on Gen. Schuyler and the doctor. Adieu, my good
friend. The post is going to town. I have only time to tell that I am
ever

                                          Your most affectionate friend,
                                          La Fayette.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                Mount Vernon, October 18, 1787.

Dear Sir:

Your favor, without date, came to my hand by the last post. It is
with unfeigned concern I perceive that a political dispute has arisen
between Gov. Clinton and yourself. For both of you I have the highest
esteem and regard. But as you say it is insinuated by some of your
political adversaries, and may obtain credit, “that you _palmed_
yourself upon me and was _dismissed_ from my family,” and call upon
me to do you justice by a recital of the facts; I do, therefore,
explicitly declare, that both charges are entirely unfounded. With
respect to the first, I have no cause to believe that you took a
single step to accomplish, or had the most distant idea of receiving
an appointment in my family till you were invited thereto. And with
respect to the second, that your quitting it was altogether the effect
of your own choice.

When the situation of this country calls loudly for unanimity and
vigor, it is to be lamented that gentlemen of talent and character
should disagree in their sentiments for promoting the public weal; but
unfortunately this ever has been, and more than probable ever will be,
the case in the affairs of man.

Having scarcely been from home since my return from Philadelphia, I can
give but little information with respect to the _general_ reception of
the new constitution in _this_ State. In Alexandria, however, and some
of the adjacent counties, it has been embraced with an enthusiastic
warmth of which I had no conception. I expect, notwithstanding, violent
opposition will be given to it by _some_ characters of weight and
influence in the State.

Mrs. Washington unites with me in sending her best wishes for Mrs.
Hamilton and yourself.

                             I am, dear Sir,
                             Your most obedient and affectionate friend,
                             G. Washington.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                                       October 30, 1787.

I am much obliged to your Excellency for the explicit manner in which
you contradict the insinuations mentioned in my last letter. The only
use I shall make of your answer will be to put it into the hands of a
few friends.

The constitution proposed has in this State warm friends, and warm
enemies. The first impressions every where are in its favor; but the
artillery of its opponents makes some impression. The event cannot yet
be foreseen. The inclosed is the first number of a series of papers to
be written in its defence.

I send you also, at the request of the Baron De Steuben, a printed
pamphlet, containing the grounds of an application lately made to
Congress. He tells me there is some reference to you, the object of
which he does not himself seem clearly to understand; but imagines it
may be in your power to be of service to him.

There are public considerations that induce me to be somewhat anxious
for his success. He is fortified with materials, which, in Europe,
could not fail to establish the belief of the contract he alleges. The
documents of service he possesses are of a nature to convey an exalted
idea of them. The compensations he has received, though considerable,
if compared with those which have been received by American officers,
will, according to European ideas, be very scanty in application to
a stranger who is acknowledged to have rendered essential services.
Our reputation abroad is not at present too high. To dismiss an old
soldier empty and hungry, to seek the bounty of those on whom he has
no claims, and to complain of unkind returns and violated engagements,
will certainly not tend to raise it. I confess, too, there is something
in my feelings which would incline me in this case to go farther than
might be strictly necessary, rather than drive a man, at the Baron’s
time of life, who has been a faithful servant, to extremities. And
this is unavoidable if he does not succeed in his present attempt. What
he asks would, all calculations made, terminate in this, an allowance
of his five hundred and eighty guineas a year. He only wishes a
recognition of the contract. He knows that until affairs mend no money
can be produced. I do not know how far it may be in your power to do
him any good; but I shall be mistaken if the considerations I have
mentioned do not appear to your Excellency to have some weight.

                                I remain, with great respect and esteem,
                                Your Excellency’s obedient servant,
                                A. Hamilton.

His Excellency General Washington.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                               Mount Vernon, November 10, 1787.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for the pamphlet, and for the Gazette, contained in your
letter of the 30th ult. For the remaining numbers of Publius, I shall
acknowledge myself obliged, as I am persuaded the subject will be well
handled by the author.

The new constitution has, as the public prints will have informed
you, been handed to the people of this State by a unanimous vote
of the Assembly, but it is not to be inferred from hence that its
opponents are silenced. On the contrary there are many, and some
powerful ones--some of whom, it is said, by _overshooting_ the mark,
have lessened their weight; be this as it may, their assiduity stands
unrivalled, whilst the friends to the constitution content themselves
with barely avowing their approbation of it. Thus stands the matter
with us at present, yet my opinion is that the major voice is favorable.

Application has been made to me by Mr. Secretary Thompson (by order
of Congress), for a copy of the report of a committee, which was
appointed to confer with the Baron De Steuben, on his first arrival
in this country, forwarded to me by Mr. President Laurens. This I
have accordingly sent. It throws no other light on the subject than
such as is to be derived from the disinterested conduct of the Baron.
No terms are made by him, “nor will he accept of any thing but with
general approbation.” I have, however, in my letter inclosing this
report to the Secretary, taken occasion to express an unequivocal wish
that Congress would reward the Baron for his services, sacrifices,
and merits, to his entire satisfaction. It is the only way in which I
could bring my sentiments before that honorable body, as it has been an
established principle with me, to ask nothing from it.

                                      With very great esteem and regard,
                                      I am, dear Sir,
                                      Your most obedient servant,
                                      G. Washington.




HAMILTON TO JAMES MADISON, JUNR.


                                       New-York, April 3, 1788.

I have been very delinquent, my dear sir, in not thanking you for your
letter from Philadelphia. The remarks you made on a certain subject are
important, and will be attended to.

There is truly much embarrassment in the case.

I think, however, the principles we have talked of, are not only just,
but will apply to the other departments. Nor will the consequences
appear so disagreeable as they may seem at first sight, when we attend
to the true import of the rule established. The States _retain_ all
the authorities they were before possessed of, not alienated in the
three modes pointed out; but this does not include cases which are
the creatures of the new Constitution. For instance, the crime of
treason against the United States _immediately_ is a crime known only
to the new Constitution. There of course _was_ no power in the State
constitutions to pardon that crime. There will therefore be none under
the new, &c. This is something like, it seems to me, to afford the
best solution of the difficulty. I send you the Federalist from the
beginning to the conclusion of the commentary on the Executive Branch.
If our suspicions of the author be right, he must be too much engaged
to make a rapid progress in what remains. The Court of Chancery and a
Circuit Court are now sitting.

We are told that your election has succeeded, with which we all
felicitate ourselves. I will thank you for an account of the result
generally. In this State our prospects are much as you left them. A
moot point which side will prevail. Our friends to the northward are
active.

                                     I remain,
                                     Your affectionate obedient servant,
                                     A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MADISON.


                                                            May 4, 1788.

My Dear Sir:

I believe I am in your debt a letter or two, which is owing to my
occupation in relation to the elections, &c.

These are now over in this State, but the result is not known. All
depends upon Albany, where both sides claim the victory. Our doubts
will not be removed till the latter end of the month. I hope your
expectations of Virginia have not diminished.

Respecting the first volume of Publius I have executed your commands.
The books have been sent addressed to the care of Governor Randolph.
The second, we are informed, will be out in the course of a week, and
an equal number shall be forwarded. Inclosed is a letter, committed to
my care by Mr. Vanderkemp, which I forward with pleasure.

                                      Believe me, with great attachment,
                                      Yours,
                                      A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.


                                        New-York, May 19, 1788.

My Dear Sir:

I acknowledge my delinquency in not thanking you before for your
obliging letter from Richmond. But the truth is, that I have been so
overwhelmed in avocations of one kind or another, that I have scarcely
had a moment to spare to a friend. You, I trust, will be the less
disposed to be inexorable, as I hope you will believe there is no one
for whom I have more inclination than yourself--I mean of the _male_
kind.

Your account of the situation of Virginia was interesting, and the
present appearances, as represented here, justify your conjectures. It
does not, however, appear that the adoption of the constitution can be
considered as out of doubt in that State. Its conduct upon the occasion
will certainly be of critical importance.

In this State, as far as we can judge, the elections have gone wrong.
The event, however, will not certainly be known till the end of the
month. Violence, rather than moderation, is to be looked for from the
opposite party. Obstinacy seems the prevailing trait in the character
of its leader. The language is, that if all the other States adopt,
this is to persist in refusing the constitution. It is reduced to a
certainty, that Clinton has in several conversations declared the
_Union_ unnecessary; though I have the information through channels
which do not permit a public use to be made of it.

We have, notwithstanding this unfavorable complexion of things, two
sources of hope--one, the chance of a ratification by nine States,
before we decide, and the influence of this upon the firmness of the
_followers_; the other, the probability of a change of sentiment in the
people, auspicious to the Constitution.

The current has been for some time running towards it; though the whole
flood of official influence, accelerated by a torrent of falsehood,
early gave the public opinion so violent a direction in a wrong
channel, that it was not possible suddenly to alter its course. This
is a mighty stiff simile; but you know what I mean; and after having
started it, I did not choose to give up the chase.

                                                 Adieu. Yours sincerely,
                                                 A. Hamilton.

The members of the Convention in this city, by a majority of nine or
ten to one, will be:--John Jay, Robert R. Livingston, Richard Morris,
John Sloss Hobart, James Duane, Isaac Rosevelt, Richard Harrison,
Nicholas Low, Alexander Hamilton.

G. Morris, Esq.




HAMILTON TO MADISON.


                                        New-York, May 19, 1788.

Some days since, I wrote to you, my dear sir, inclosing a letter from a
Mr. Vanderkemp, &c.

I then mentioned to you that the question of a majority for or against
the Constitution, would depend upon the County of Albany. By the later
accounts from that quarter, I fear much that the issue there has been
against us.

As Clinton is truly the leader of his party, and is inflexibly
obstinate, I count little on overcoming opposition by reason. Our only
chances will be the previous ratification by nine States, which may
shake the firmness of his followers; and a change in the sentiments
of the people, which have, for some time, been travelling towards the
Constitution, though the first impressions, made by every species of
influence and artifice, were too strong to be eradicated in time to
give a decisive turn to the elections. We shall leave nothing undone to
cultivate a favorable disposition in the citizens at large.

The language of the Anti-federalists is, that if all the other States
adopt, New-York ought still to hold out. I have the most direct
intelligence, but in a manner which forbids a public use being made
of it, that Clinton has, in several conversations, declared his
opinion of the _inutility_ of the Union. It is an unhappy
reflection, that the friends to it should, by quarrelling for straws
among themselves, promote the designs of its adversaries. We think here
that the situation of your State is critical. Let me know what you
now think of it. I believe you meet nearly at the time we do. It will
be of vast importance that an exact communication should be kept up
between us at that period; and the moment _any decisive_ question is
taken, if favorable, I request you to dispatch an express to me with
pointed orders to make all possible diligence, by changing horses, &c.
All expense shall be thankfully and liberally paid. I executed your
commands respecting the first volume of the Federalist. I sent forty of
the common copies and twelve of the finer ones, addressed to the care
of Governor Randolph. The printer announces the second volume in a day
or two, when an equal number of the two kinds shall also be forwarded.
He informs that the Judicial Department--Trial by Jury--Bill of Rights,
&c., is discussed in some additional papers which have not yet appeared
in the Gazettes.

                                    I remain,
                                    With great sincerity and attachment,
                                    Yours,
                                    A. Hamilton.

James Madison.




HAMILTON TO MADISON.


                                        New-York, June 8, 1788.

My Dear Sir:

In my last, I think, I informed you that the elections had turned out,
beyond expectation, favorable to the Anti-federal party. They have a
majority of two-thirds in the Convention, and, according to the best
estimate I can form, of about four-sevenths in the community. The
views of the leaders in this city are pretty well ascertained to be
turned towards a _long_ adjournment; say, till next spring or summer.
Their incautious ones observe, that this will give an opportunity to
the State to _see how_ the government works, and to act according to
_circumstances_.

My reasonings on the fact are to this effect: The leaders of the
party hostile to the Constitution are equally hostile to the Union.
They are, however, afraid to reject the Constitution at once, because
that step would bring matters to a crisis between this State and the
States which had adopted the Constitution, and between the parties
in the State. A separation of the Southern District from the other
parts of the State, it is perceived, would become the object of the
Federalists, and of the neighboring States. They therefore resolve upon
a long adjournment, as the safest and most artful course to effect
their final purpose. They suppose, that when the Government gets into
operation, it will be obliged to take some steps in respect to revenue,
&c., which will furnish topics of declamation to its enemies in the
several States, and will strengthen the minorities. If any considerable
discontent should show itself, they will stand ready to head the
opposition. If, on the contrary, the thing should go on smoothly, and
the sentiments of our own people should change, they can elect to come
into the Union. They at all events take the chances of time and the
chapter of accidents.

How far their friends in the country will go with them, I am not able
to say, but, as they have always been found very obsequious, we have
little reason to calculate upon an uncompliant temper in the present
instance. For my own part, the more I can penetrate the views of the
Anti-federal party in this State, the more I dread the consequences of
the non-adoption of the Constitution by any of the other States--the
more I fear an eventual disunion, and civil war. God grant that
Virginia may accede. The example will have a vast influence on our
politics. New Hampshire, all accounts give us to expect, will be an
assenting State.

The number of the volumes of the Federalist which you desired, have
been forwarded, as well the second as the first, to the care of
Governor Randolph. It was impossible to correct a certain error.

In a former letter, I requested you to communicate to me, by express,
the event of any decisive question in favor of the Constitution,
authorizing changes of horses, &c., with an assurance to the person
that he will be liberally paid for his diligence.

                                                   A. Hamilton.


James Madison.




MADISON TO HAMILTON.


                                        Richmond, June 9, 1788.

Dear Sir:

The heat of the weather, &c., has laid me up with a bilious attack: I
am not able, therefore, to say more than a few words.

No material indications have taken place since my last. The chance at
present seems to be in our favor. But it is possible things may take
another turn. Oswald of Philadelphia came here on Saturday; and has
closet interviews with the leaders of the opposition.

                                                  Yours, affectionately,
                                                  J. Madison.

Alex. Hamilton, Esq.




RUFUS KING TO HAMILTON.


                                         Boston, June 12, 1788.

Dear Sir:

I have made an arrangement to forward by express the result of the
Convention of New Hampshire to Springfield, in this State, from which
place Gen. Knox has engaged a conveyance to you at Poughkeepsie.
Those who are best informed of the situation of the question, in New
Hampshire, are positive that the decision will be such as we wish, and
from the particular parts which I have heard, I can entertain no fear
of a disappointment from that quarter. The accession of New Hampshire
will present the subject to your Convention in a new, and indeed, an
extraordinary light. I think your opponents, powerful as they may be,
will be greatly perplexed, although they may outnumber you, and a small
majority of the people of the State may be on their side, yet I cannot
think they will have the hardiness to negative the question.

You may pronounce, with the utmost confidence, that the decision of
our Convention has proved entirely satisfactory to our people. I have
made a business of conversing with men from all parts of the State,
and am completely satisfied that the Constitution is highly popular;
that its opponents are now very few, and those few hourly diminishing.
Be assured that the organization of the Government (by _nine States_,
is considered as certain), although a subject of delicacy, is most
earnestly desired, and from the conversation of both yeoman and
politician, I am persuaded, that the people of Massachusetts are
sufficiently mature and firm, to execute, so far as depends on them,
what shall be proper as good subjects of the new Government.

                                                    Farewell.
                                                    Yours, &c.,
                                                    Rufus King.

Col. A. Hamilton.

Pray mention to Knox that I should have written to him had I not
supposed him on his way here.




MADISON TO HAMILTON.


                                       Richmond, June 16, 1788.

Dear Sir:

Yours of the 8th has just come to hand. I mentioned in my last that
Oswald had been here in consultation with the Anti-federal leaders.
The contents of your letter confirm the idea that a requisition for
delay is on foot between the opposition here and with you. We have
conjectured for some days, that the policy is to spin out the session,
in order to receive overtures from your Convention; or, if that cannot
be, to weary the members into an adjournment, without taking any
decision. It is presumed, at the same time, that they do not despair of
carrying the point of previous amendments, which is preferable game.
The parties continue to be nearly balanced. If we have a majority at
all, it does not exceed three or four. If we lose it, Kentucke will be
the cause; they are generally, if not unanimously against us.

I have been partially recovered since my last, but to-day have a sort
of relapse. My health is not good, and the business is wearisome beyond
expression. I wish you every happiness, and

                                                Am yours,
                                                J. Madison, Jr.




H. LEE TO HAMILTON.


                                                                   1788.

My Dear Sir:

God bless you and your efforts to save me from the manifold ----
misfortunes which have and continue to oppress me, whenever I attempt
to aid human nature. You will do what you think best, and whatever you
do I will confirm. * * * * has acted the part of a decided rascal, and
if I fail in my right, I may not in personal revenge.

Our Convention is in full debate on the great business of the Federal
Constitution. We possess, as yet, in defiance of great overtures, a
majority, but very small indeed.

A correspondence has certainly been opened through a Mr. O. of
Philadelphia, from the malcontents of P. and N. Y. to us. It has its
operation, but I believe we are still safe, unless the question of
adjournment be introduced, and love of home may induce some of our
friends to abandon their principles.

                                                        Adieu,
                                                        H. Lee.




MADISON TO HAMILTON.


                                       Richmond, June 20, 1788.

Dear Sir:

Our debates have advanced as far as the judiciary department, against
which a great effort is making. The appellate cognizance of fact,
and an extension of the power to causes between citizens of different
States, with some lesser objections, are the topics chiefly dwelt on.
The retrospection to cases antecedent to the Constitution, such as
British debts, and an apprehended revival of the Fairfax, Indiana,
Vandalia, &c., claims, are also brought into view in all the terrific
colors which imagination can give them. A few days more will probably
produce a decision, though it is surmised, that something is expected
from your Convention in consequence of the mission formerly suggested
to you. Delay and an adjournment will be tried, if the adverse party
find their numbers inferior, and can prevail on themselves to remain
here till the other side can be wearied into that mode of relieving
themselves. At present, it is calculated, that we still retain a
majority of three or four; and if we can weather the storm against
the part under consideration, I shall hold the danger to be pretty
well over. There is nevertheless a very disagreeable uncertainty in
the case; and the more so, as there is a possibility that our present
strength may be miscalculated.

                                                Yours, affectionately,
                                                J. Madison, Jr.




HAMILTON TO MADISON.


                                      Poughkeepsie, June, 1788.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 20th came to hand two days since. I regret that your
prospects are not yet reduced to greater certainty. There is more and
more reason to believe that our conduct will be influenced by yours.

Our discussions have not yet travelled beyond the power of taxation.
To-day we shall probably quit this ground to pass to another. Our
arguments confound, but do not convince. Some of the leaders, however,
appear to be convinced by _circumstances_, and to be desirous of a
retreat. This does not apply to the chief, who wishes to establish
Clintonism on the basis of Anti-federalism.

                                          I remain affectionately yours,
                                          A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MADISON.


                                   Poughkeepsie, June 21, 1788.

Yesterday, my dear sir, the Convention made a House. That day and
this have been spent in preliminary arrangements. To-morrow, we go
into a committee of the whole on the Constitution. There is every
appearance that a full discussion will take place, which will keep us
together at least a fortnight. It is not easy to conjecture what will
be the result. Our adversaries greatly outnumber us. The leaders gave
indications of a pretty desperate disposition in private conversations
previous to the meeting; but I imagine the minor partisans have their
scruples, and an air of moderation is now assumed. So far the thing
is not despaired of. A happy issue with you must have considerable
influence upon us. I have time to add nothing more than the assurances
of my sincere attachment.

                                                   A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MADISON.


                                   Poughkeepsie, June 21, 1788.

My Dear Sir:

I thank you for your letter of the 9th instant, and am glad to learn
that you think the chance is in your favor. I hope no disagreeable
change may appear. Yet, I own I fear something from your indisposition.

Our debate here began on the clause respecting the proportion of
representation, &c., which has taken up two days. To-morrow, I imagine,
we shall talk about the power over elections. The only good information
I can give you is, that we shall be some time together, and take the
chance of events.

The object of the party at present is undoubtedly conditional
amendments. What effect events may have cannot precisely be foreseen. I
believe the adoption by New Hampshire is certain.

                                                  Yours, affectionately,
                                                  A. Hamilton.




MADISON TO HAMILTON.


                                       Richmond, June 22, 1788.

Dear Sir:

The Judiciary Department has been on the anvil for several days,
and I presume will still be a further subject of disquisition. The
attacks on it have apparently made less impression than was feared.
But they may be secretly felt by particular interests that could
not make the acknowledgment, and we choose to ground their vote
against the Constitution in other motives. In the course of this
week we hope for a close of the business in some form or other. The
opponents will probably bring forward a bill of rights, with sundry
other amendments, as conditions of ratification. Should these fail,
or be despaired of, an adjournment will, I think, be attempted. And
in case of disappointment here also, some predict a secession. I do
not myself concur in the last apprehension, though I have thought
it prudent to withhold, by a studied fairness in every step on the
side of the Constitution, every pretext for rash experiments. The
plan meditated by the friends of the Constitution is to preface the
ratification with some plain and general truths that cannot affect
the validity of the act, and to subjoin a recommendation, which may
hold up amendments as objects to be pursued in the constitutional
mode. These expedients are rendered prudent by the nice balance of
numbers, and the scruples entertained by some who are in general well
affected. Whether they will secure us a majority, I dare not positively
to declare. Our calculations promise us success by three or four, or
possibly five or six votes. But were there no possibility of mistaking
the opinions of some, in reviewing those of so many, the smallness
of the majority suggests the danger from ordinary casualties, which
may vary the result. It unluckily happens that our legislature, which
meets at this place to-morrow, consists of a considerable majority of
Anti-federal members. This is another circumstance that ought to check
our confidence. As individuals they may have some influence; and, as
coming immediately from the people at large, they can give any color
they please to the popular sentiments at this moment, and may in that
mode throw a bias on the representatives of the people in Convention.

                                                Yours, affectionately,
                                                J. Madison, Jr.




HAMILTON TO MADISON.


                   Poughkeepsie, Friday morning, June 27, 1788.

A day or two ago, General Schuyler, at my request, sent forward to you
an express with an account of the adoption of the Constitution by New
Hampshire. We eagerly wait for further intelligence from you, as our
chance of success depends upon you. There are some slight symptoms of
relaxation in some of the leaders, which authorizes a gleam of hope, if
you do well, but certainly I think not otherwise.

                                                   A. Hamilton.

To Hon. James Madison, Jr.




MADISON TO HAMILTON.


                                       Richmond, June 27, 1788.

My Dear Sir:

This day put an end to the existence of our Convention. The inclosed
is a copy of the Act of Ratification. It has been followed by a number
of recommendatory alterations, many of them highly objectionable. One
of the most so is an article prohibiting direct taxes where effectual
laws shall be passed by the States for the purpose. It was impossible
to prevent this error. The minority will sign an address to the people.
The genius of it is unknown to me. It is announced as an exhortation
to acquiesce in the result of the Convention. Notwithstanding the
fair propositions made by some, I am so uncharitable as to suspect,
that the ill-will to the Constitution will produce every peaceable
effort to disgrace and destroy it. Mr. Henry declared, previous to the
final question, that although he should submit as a quiet citizen, he
should wait with impatience for the favorable moment of regaining,
in a _constitutional way_, the lost liberties of his country. My
conjecture is, that exertions will be made to engage two-thirds of the
legislatures in the task of regularly undermining the Government. This
hint may not be unworthy of your attention.

                                                Yours, affectionately,
                                                J. Madison, Jr.




MADISON TO HAMILTON.


                                                        June 31, 1788.

Inclosed is the final result of our conventional deliberations. The
intended address of the minority proved to be of a nature apprehended
by me. It was rejected by the party themselves, when proposed to them,
and produced an auspicious conclusion to the business. As I shall set
out in a few days for New-York, I postpone further explanations. I have
this instant the communications from New Hampshire via Poughkeepsie;
also, your two favors of the 19th and 20th.

                                                Yours, affectionately,
                                                J. Madison, Jr.




HAMILTON TO MADISON.


                                                           July 8, 1788.

My Dear Sir:

I felicitate you sincerely on the event in Virginia, but my
satisfaction will be allayed if I discover too much facility in the
business of amendment-making. I fear the system will be wounded in
some of its vital parts by too general a concurrence in some very
injudicious recommendations. I allude more particularly to the power of
taxation. The more I consider _requisition_ in any shape, the more I
am out of humor with it. We yesterday passed through the Constitution.
To-day some definitive proposition is to be brought forward, but
what we are at a loss to judge. We have good reason to believe that
our opponents are not agreed, and this affords some ground of hope.
Different things are thought of--_conditions precedent_, or previous
amendments; _conditions subsequent_, or the proposition of amendments,
upon condition that if they are not adopted within a limited time,
the State shall be at liberty to _withdraw_ from the Union; and
lastly, _recommendatory amendments_. In either case, _constructive
declarations_ will be carried as far as possible. We will go as
far as we can in the latter without invalidating the act, and will
concur in rational recommendations. The rest for our opponents. We
are informed there has been a disturbance in the city of Albany, on
the 4th of July, which has occasioned bloodshed. The Anti-federalists
were the aggressors, and the Federalists the victors. Thus stand our
accounts at present. We trust, however, the matter has passed over, and
tranquillity been restored.

                                                  Yours, affectionately,
                                                  A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MADISON.


                            Poughkeepsie, Saturday, July, 1788.

I thank you, my dear sir, for yours by the post. Yesterday, I
communicated to Duer our situation, which I presume he will have
communicated to you. It remains exactly the same. No further question
having been taken, I fear the footing I mentioned to Duer is the
best upon which it can be placed; but every thing possible will yet
be attempted to bring the party from that stand to an unqualified
ratification. Let me know your idea upon the possibility of our being
received on that plan. You will understand that the only qualification
will be the _reservation_ of a right to recede, in case our amendments
have not been decided upon in one of the modes pointed out by the
Constitution within a certain number of years, perhaps five or seven.
If this can in the first instance be admitted as a ratification, I do
not fear any further consequences. Congress will, I presume, recommend
certain amendments to render the _structure_ of the Government more
secure. This will satisfy the more considerate and honest opposers of
the Constitution, and with the aid of them will break up the party.

                                                  Yours, affectionately,
                                                  A. Hamilton.




MADISON TO HAMILTON.


                                      New-York, Sunday evening.

My Dear Sir:

Yours, of yesterday, is this instant come to hand, and I have but a
few minutes to answer it. I am sorry that your situation obliges you
to listen to propositions of the nature you describe. My opinion is,
that a reservation of a right to withdraw, if amendments be not decided
on under the form of the Constitution within a certain time, is a
_conditional_ ratification; that it does not make New-York a member of
the new Union, and consequently that she could not be received on that
plan. Compacts must be reciprocal--this principle would not in such a
case be preserved. The Constitution requires an adoption _in toto_ and
_for ever_. It has been so adopted by the other States. An adoption
for a limited time would be as defective as an adoption of some of the
articles only. In short, any _condition_ whatever must vitiate the
ratification. What the new Congress, by virtue of the power to admit
new States, may be _able_ and disposed to do in such case, I do not
inquire, as I suppose that is not the material point at present. I
have not a moment to add more than my fervent wishes for your success
and happiness. The idea of reserving a right to withdraw was started
at Richmond, and considered as a conditional ratification, which was
itself abandoned as worse than a rejection.

                                             Yours,
                                             James Madison, Jr.




CHIPMAN TO HAMILTON.


                                       Tinmouth, July 14, 1788.

Sir:

Your character as a federalist has induced me, although, personally
unknown to you, to address you on a subject of very great importance
to the State of Vermont, of which I am a citizen, and from which I
think may be derived a considerable advantage to the federal cause. Ten
States have now adopted the new federal plan of government. That it
will now succeed is beyond a doubt; what disputes the other States may
occasion I know not. The people of this State, could certain obstacles
be removed, I believe, might be induced almost unanimously to throw
themselves into the federal scale. You are not unacquainted with the
situation of a considerable part of our landed property. Many grants
were formerly made by the government of New-York, of lands within
this territory while under that jurisdiction. On the assumption of
government by the people of this State, the same lands, partly, it is
said, for want of information respecting the true situation of these
grants, and partly from the opinion prevailing with our then leaders,
that the New-York grants within this territory were of no validity,
have been granted to others under the authority of this State.

It is now generally believed that, should we be received into the
Union, the New-York grants would, in the federal courts, be preferred
to those of Vermont. The Legislature of this State have in some
instances made a compensation to the grantees under New-York, and I
am persuaded, were it in their power, would gladly do the same for
others, but they are possessed of no more land for that purpose.
For these reasons, I presume no others, the Governor and some few
gentlemen deeply interested in those lands under Vermont, have
expressed themselves somewhat bitterly against the new federal plan of
government. Indeed, were we to be admitted unconditionally it would
introduce much confusion. Now, sir, permit me to ask whether you do not
think it probable that the federal legislature, when formed, might, on
our accession, be induced on some terms to make a compensation to the
New-York grantees out of their western land? And whether those grantees
might not be induced to accept of such compensation? Let me further
suggest whether it might be favorable for Vermont to make some of those
amendments, which have been proposed by several States, and which, I
think, are generally within the power of the federal legislature, the
basis of her admission. Could the difficulties I have mentioned be
removed, all interest in opposition could here be reconciled. The idea
of procuring justice to be done those whom we had perhaps injured by
our too precipitate measures, and of being connected with a Government
which promises to be efficient, permanent, and honorable, would, I am
persuaded, produce the greatest unanimity on the subject. If you think
these matters worthy the attention of the friends of the Confederacy,
be good enough to write me by my brother, who will be the bearer of
this.

Our Legislature will meet in October, when these matters will be taken
up seriously. Several gentlemen of my acquaintance, who are men of
influence, and will be members of the Legislature, have requested me to
procure all the information in my power on this subject. Any thing you
may communicate to me in confidence will be sacredly attended to, of
which Mr. Kelly, who writes by the same opportunity, will give you the
fullest assurance.

                                   I am, Sir, with sentiments of esteem,
                                   Your most obedient servant,
                                   Nathaniel Chipman.

Alex. Hamilton, Esq.




HAMILTON TO CHIPMAN.


                                   Poughkeepsie, July 22, 1788.

Sir:

Your brother delivered me your favor, which I received with pleasure,
as the basis of a correspondence that may be productive of public
good. The accession of Vermont to the Confederacy is, doubtless, an
object of great importance to the whole; and it appears to me that this
is the favorable moment for effecting it upon the best terms for all
concerned. Besides more general reasons, there are circumstances of
the moment which will forward a proper arrangement. One of the first
subjects of deliberation with the new Congress will be the independence
of Kentucky, for which the Southern States will be anxious. The
Northern will be glad to send a counterpoise in Vermont. These mutual
interests and inclinations will facilitate a proper result.

I see nothing that can stand in your way but the interfering claims
under the grants of New-York. As to taxation, the natural operation of
the new system will place you exactly where you might wish to be. The
public debt, as far as it can prudently be provided for, will be by the
Western lands and the appropriation of some general fund. _There will
be no distribution of it to particular parts of the community._ The
fund will be sought for in indirect taxation; as for a number of years,
and except in time of war, direct taxes would be an impolitic measure.
Hence, as you can have no objection to your proportion of contribution
as consumers, you can fear nothing from the article of taxation.

I readily conceive that it will hardly be practicable to you to come
into the Union unless you are secured from claims under New-York
grants. Upon the whole, therefore, I think it will be expedient for
you, as early as possible, to ratify the Constitution, “upon condition
that Congress shall provide for the extinguishment of all existing
claims to land under grants of the State of New-York, which may
interfere with claims under the grants of the State of Vermont.” You
will do well to conform your boundary to that heretofore marked out by
Congress, otherwise insuperable difficulties would be likely to arise
with this State.

I should think it altogether unadvisable to annex any other conditions
to your ratification; for there is scarcely any of the amendments
proposed that will not have a party opposed to it, and there are
several that will meet with a very strong opposition; and it would,
therefore, be highly inexpedient for you to embarrass your main object
by any collateral difficulties.

As I write in Convention, I have it not in my power to enlarge. You
will perceive my general ideas on the subject. I will only add, that it
will be wise to lay as little impediment as possible in the way of your
reception into the Union.

                                                   A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO MADISON.


                                   Poughkeepsie, July 22, 1788.

My Dear Sir:

I wrote to you by the last post, since which nothing material has
turned up here. We are debating on amendments without having decided
what is to be done with them. There is so great a diversity in the
views of our opponents that it is impossible to predict any thing. Upon
the whole, however, our fears diminish.

                                                   Yours affectionately,
                                                   A. Hamilton.

James Madison, jr., New-York.




HAMILTON TO SAMUEL BROOME.


                                        New-York, Aug. 6, 1788.

My Dear Sir:

I have this moment received your letter of the thirteenth ultimo, and
am sorry that the rules of propriety in respect to my situation, as a
member of Congress, will not permit my acting in the capacity you wish.

My situation for some time past has prevented my acknowledging one or
two of your favors, which have been duly handed to me. I recollect
that one of them contains an inquiry concerning your son, to which you
will naturally desire an answer. My public avocations, for some time
past, have put it out of my power to ascertain the progress he has
made; though I expect, when I shall be enough disengaged to examine, to
find it a good one. It cannot fail to be so, if his diligence has been
equal to his capacity. I shall shortly write you further on the subject.

                                                  With great esteem,
                                                  I remain, Sir,
                                                  Your obedient servant,
                                                  A. Hamilton.

Mr. Samuel Broome.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                     New-York, August 18, 1788.

Sir:

Captain Cochran of the British navy has requested my aid in recovering
a family watch in the possession of ----. In compliance with his
request, I have written the letter herewith (to ---- ----), which
I take the liberty to convey through you, in hope that if you see
no impropriety in it, you would add your influence to the endeavor
to gratify Captain Cochran. It is one of those things in which the
affections are apt to be interested beyond the value of the object, and
in which one naturally feels an inclination to oblige.

I have delivered to Mr. Madison, to be forwarded to you, a set of
the papers under the signature of Publius, neatly enough bound to be
honored with a place in your library. I presume you have understood
that the writers of these papers are chiefly Mr. Madison and myself,
with some aid from Mr. Jay.

I take it for granted, sir, you have concluded to comply with what will
no doubt be the general call of your country in relation to the new
Government. You will permit me to say that it is indispensable you
should lend yourself to its first operations. It is of little purpose
to have _introduced_ a system, if the weightiest influence is not given
to its firm _establishment_ in the outset.

                                      I remain with the greatest esteem,
                                      Your obedient and humble servant,
                                      A. Hamilton.

General Washington.




HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR LIVINGSTON.


                                     New-York, August 29, 1788.

Dear Sir:

We are informed here, that there is some probability that your
Legislature will instruct your delegates to vote for Philadelphia
as the place of the meeting of the first Congress under the new
Government. I presume this information can hardly be well founded,
as upon my calculations, there is not a State in the Union so much
interested in having the temporary residence at New-York, as New Jersey.

As between Philadelphia and New-York, I am mistaken if a greater
proportion of your State will not be benefited by having the seat of
government at the latter than the former place.

If at the latter, too, its exposed and eccentric position will
necessitate the early establishment of a permanent seat, and in passing
south, it is highly probable the Government would light upon the
Delaware in New Jersey. The Northern States do not wish to increase
Pennsylvania, by an accession of all the wealth and population of the
Federal City. Pennsylvania, herself, when not seduced by _immediate
possession_, will be glad to concur in a situation on the Jersey side
of the Delaware. Here are at once a majority of the States; but place
the Government once down in Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania will, of course,
hold fast; the State of Delaware will do the same.

All the States south, looking forward to the time, when the balance
of population will enable them to carry the Government further south
(say to the Potomac), and being accommodated in the mean time as well
as they wish, will concur in no change. The Government, from the delay,
will take root in Philadelphia, and Jersey will lose all prospect of
the Federal City within her limits.

These appear to me calculations so obvious, that I cannot persuade
myself New Jersey will so much _oversee_ her interest as to fall, in
the present instance, into the snares of Pennsylvania.

                                  With the sincerest respect and regard,
                                  I remain, dear Sir,
                                  Your obedient servant,
                                  A. Hamilton.




CHIPMAN TO HAMILTON.


                                        Newfane, Sept. 6, 1788.

Sir:

I have received by Capt. Ville, your favor of the 22d of July. Since I
wrote you, I have had an opportunity of conversing with his Excellency,
the Governor, and most of the council, on the subject of Vermont’s
accession to the Confederacy. They generally agree, that the terms
suggested are good; that it will be highly the interest of Vermont to
accede; and that the present is likely to be a favorable crisis. But it
is a question whether we ought to make any propositions to the present
Congress, or prepare matters, and wait the new arrangement. Vermont
will not make a point of introducing any amendments. We shall not be
the first to feel the inconveniences, if any should arise, from the
exercise of the new federal powers. For myself, I readily conceive,
that direct taxation, under the new system, will be very inconsiderable
during the continuance of peace; yet I find an exemption from the
expenses of the late war will have with the citizens of this State a
very powerful effect in producing unanimity on the subject of a Union.

But I hope this matter will in some way be compromised. If, sir, you
have any thing to suggest on this subject, that may promote the public
good, I should be very happy in the communication, previous to the
session of Assembly in October next. The choice of representatives,
which was on Tuesday last, has, as far as I have heard, succeeded
favorably. Mr. Kelly, who is so obliging as to take charge of this
letter, will be able to give you a more particular account than can
be done in this way, as he has conversed largely with the Governor,
Council, and other persons of influence, with whom he has great weight.

                                           I am, Sir,
                                           With much esteem and respect,
                                           Your most obedient servant,
                                           Nathl. Chipman.

A. Hamilton, Esq.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                     New-York, September, 1788.

Dear Sir:

Your Excellency’s friendly and obliging letter of the 28th ultimo,
came safely to hand. I thank you for your assurance of seconding my
application to General ----. The truth of that affair is, that he
purchased the watch for a trifle of a British soldier, who plundered
Major Cochran, at the moment of his fall, at Yorktown.

I should be deeply pained, my dear sir, if your scruples in regard to
a certain station, should be matured into a resolution to decline it;
though I am neither surprised at their existence, nor can I but agree
in opinion, that the caution you observe, in deferring an ultimate
determination, is prudent. I have, however, reflected maturely on the
subject, and have come to a conclusion (in which I feel no hesitation),
that every public and personal consideration will demand from you an
acquiescence in what will _certainly_ be the unanimous wish of your
country. The absolute retreat which you meditated at the close of
the late war was natural, and proper. Had the Government produced by
the revolution, gone on in a _tolerable_ train, it would have been
most advisable to have persisted in that retreat. But I am clearly of
opinion, that the crisis which brought you again into public view,
left you no alternative but to comply; and I am equally clear in
the opinion, that you are by that act _pledged_ to take a part in
the execution of the Government. I am not less convinced, that the
impression of this necessity of your filling the station in question,
is so universal, that you run no risk of any uncandid imputation by
submitting to it. But even if this were not the case, a regard to your
own reputation, as well as to the public good, calls upon you in the
strongest manner, to run that risk.

It cannot be considered as a compliment to say, that on your acceptance
of the office of President, the success of the new Government, in its
commencement, may materially depend. Your agency and influence will
be not less important in preserving it from the future attacks of its
enemies, than they have been in recommending it in the first instance,
to the adoption of the people. Independent of all considerations drawn
from this source, the point of light in which you stand at home and
abroad, will make an infinite difference in the respectability with
which the Government will begin its operations, in the alternative
of your being or not being at the head of it. I forbear to urge
considerations which might have a more personal application. What I
have said will suffice for the inferences I mean to draw.

First. In a matter so essential to the well-being of society, as the
prosperity of a newly instituted government, a citizen of so much
consequence as yourself to its success, has no option but to lend his
services if called for. Permit me to say, it would be inglorious, in
such a situation, not to hazard the glory, however great, which he
might have previously acquired.

Secondly. Your signature to the proposed system, pledges your judgment
for its being such an one as, upon the whole, was worthy of the public
approbation. If it should miscarry (as men commonly decide from
success, or the want of it), the blame will, in all probability, be
laid on the system itself; and the framers of it will have to encounter
the disrepute of having brought about a revolution in government,
without substituting any thing that was worthy of the effort. They
pulled down one Utopia, it will be said, to build up another. This view
of the subject, if I mistake not, my dear sir, will suggest to your
mind greater hazard to that fame, which must be and ought to be dear
to you, in refusing your future aid to the system, than in affording
it. I will only add, that in my estimate of the matter, that aid is
indispensable.

I have taken the liberty to express these sentiments, and to lay before
you my view of the subject. I doubt not the considerations mentioned,
have fully occurred to you, and I trust they will finally produce in
your mind the same result which exists in mine. I flatter myself, the
frankness with which I have delivered myself will not be displeasing to
you. It has been prompted by motives which you would not disapprove.

                                  I remain, my dear Sir,
                                  With the sincerest respect and regard,
                                  Your obedient and humble servant,
                                  A. Hamilton.




STEUBEN TO HAMILTON.


                                                     Le 5 de Sept. 1788.

Monsieur,

La lettre c’y joint de Mr. R. Peters, contienne une preuve, non
équivoque, que dans mes premières applications et immédiatement après
la paix, j’ai appuyé mes prétentions aux E. U. sur une stipulation ou
contract fait en entrant dans leur service.

Comme vous étiez de cette même committée à Philadelphie, je m’en
rapporte à votre mémoire. Dans tous les committées subséquentes j’ai
toujours appuyé sur ce même contract, et je me rapporte à tous les
Messieurs qui successivement furent des committées sur ce sujet. Comme
vous étes de la presente Congrès, je vous prie de communiquer la
reporte de Mr. Peters à cette committée.

                                   J’ai l’honneur d’ètre avec affection,
                                   Monsieur,
                                   Votre très humble,
                                   Steuben.

Alexander Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO THEODORE SEDGEWICK.


                                        New-York, Oct. 9, 1788.

Your last letter but one met me at Albany attending court, whence I
am just returned. I am sorry for the schism you hint at among the
Federalists, but I have so much confidence in the good management of
the fast friends of the Constitution, that I hope no ill consequences
will ensue from that disagreement. It will, however, be worthy of great
care to avoid suffering a difference of opinion on collateral points,
to produce any serious division between those who have hitherto drawn
together on the great national question. Permit me to add, that I do
not think you should allow any line to be run between those who wish
to trust alterations to future experience, and those who are desirous
of them at the present juncture. The rage for amendments is, in my
opinion, rather to be parried by address than encountered with open
force; and I should therefore be loth to learn that your parties had
been arrayed professedly upon the distinction I have mentioned.

The mode in which amendments may best be made, and twenty other
matters, may come as pretexts for avoiding the evil, and securing the
good.

                                                   Yours,
                                                   A. Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO CHIPMAN.


                                                                   1788.

Sir:

Your favor of the 6th of September has been duly handed to me, and I
receive great pleasure from the hopes you appear to entertain of a
favorable turn of affairs in Vermont in regard to the new Government.
It is certainly an object of mutual importance to yourselves, and to
the Union, and well deserves the best endeavors of every discerning and
good man.

I observe with satisfaction your opinion that Vermont will not make
a point of introducing amendments. I mean as a condition of her
accession. That ground would be the most hazardous which she could
venture upon, as it is very probable that such amendments as might
be popular with you would be deemed inadmissible by the friends of
the system, who will doubtless be the most influential persons in the
national councils; and who would rather submit to the inconvenience
of your being out of the Union, till circumstances should alter, than
consent to any thing that might impair the energy of the Government.
The article of taxation is, above all, the most delicate thing to
meddle with; for as _plenary_ power in that respect must ever be
considered as the vital principle of government, no abridgment
or constitutional suspension of that power can ever, upon mature
consideration, be countenanced by the intelligent friends of an
effective National Government. You must, as I remarked in my former
letter, rely upon the natural course of things, which I am satisfied
will exempt you in ordinary times from direct taxation, on account
of the difficulty of exercising it in so extensive a country, so
peculiarly situated, with advantage to the revenue or satisfaction to
the people. Though this difficulty will be gradually diminished from
various causes, a considerable time must first elapse; and, in the
interim, you will have nothing to apprehend on this score.

As far as indirect taxation is concerned, it will be impossible to
exempt you from sharing in the burthen, nor can it be desired by your
citizens. I repeat these ideas to impress you the more strongly with
my sense of the danger of touching this chord, and of the impolicy
of perplexing the main object with any such collateral experiments,
while I am glad to perceive that you do not think your people will be
tenacious on the point.

It will be useless for you to have any view in your act to the
present Congress. They can of course do nothing in the matter. All
you will have to do, will be to pass an act of accession to the new
Constitution, on the conditions upon which you mean to rely. It will
then be for the new Government, when met, to declare whether you can be
received on your terms or not.

I am sorry to find that the affair of boundary is likely to create
some embarrassment. Men’s minds, every where out of your State, are
made up upon and reconciled to that which has been delineated by
Congress. Any departure from it must beget new discussions, in which
all the passions will have their usual scope, and may occasion greater
impediments than the real importance of the thing would justify. If,
however, the further claims you state cannot be gotten over with you,
I would still wish to see the experiment made, though with this clog,
because I have it very much at heart that you should become a member
of the Confederacy. It is, however, not to be inferred that the same
disposition will actuate every body. In this State, the pride of
certain individuals has too long triumphed over the public interest;
and in several of the Southern States a jealousy of Northern influence
will prevent any great zeal for increasing in the national councils the
number of Northern votes.

I mention these circumstances (though I dare say they will have
occurred to you), to show you the necessity of moderation and caution
on your part, and the error of any sanguine calculation upon a
disposition to receive you at any rate. A supposition of this nature
might lead to fatal mistakes.

In the event of an extension of your boundary beyond the Congressional
line, would it be impracticable for you to have commissioners appointed
to adjust any differences which might arise? I presume the principal
object with you in the extension of your boundary would be to cover
some private interests. This might be matter of negotiation. There is
one thing which I think it proper to mention to you, about which I have
some doubt; that is, whether a legislative accession would be deemed
valid. It is the policy of the system to lay its foundations in the
_immediate_ consent of the people. You will best judge how far it is
safe or practicable to have recourse to a convention. Whatever you do,
no time ought to be lost. The present moment is undoubtedly critically
favorable. Let it by all means be improved. I remain, with esteem, Sir,

                                       Your obedient and humble servant,
                                       A. Hamilton.

Nathaniel Chipman, Esq.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                 Mount Vernon, October 3, 1788.

Dear Sir:

In acknowledging the receipt of your candid and friendly letter of
---- by the last post, little more is incumbent on me than to thank
you sincerely for the frankness with which you communicated your
sentiments; and to assure you that the same manly tone of intercourse
will always be more than barely welcome. Indeed, it will be highly
acceptable to me. I am particularly glad, in the present instance, you
have dealt thus freely and like a friend.

Although I could not help observing from several publications and
letters, that my name had been sometimes spoken of, and that it was
possible the _contingency_ which is the subject of your letter might
happen; yet I thought it best to maintain a guarded silence and to back
the _counsel_ of my best friends (which I certainly hold in the highest
estimation), rather than to hazard an imputation unfriendly to the
delicacy of my feelings. For, situated as I am, I could hardly bring
the question into the slightest discussion, or ask an opinion, even
in the most confidential manner, without betraying, in my judgment,
some impropriety of conduct, or without feeling an apprehension that
a premature display of anxiety might be construed into a vain-glorious
desire of pushing myself into notice as a candidate. Now, if I am not
grossly deceived in myself, I should unfeignedly rejoice in case the
Electors, by giving their votes in favor of some other person, would
save me from the disagreeable dilemma of being forced to accept or
refuse. If that may not be, I am in the next place earnestly desirous
of searching out the truth, and of knowing whether there does not
exist a probability that the Government would be just as happily and
effectually carried into execution without my aid as with it. I am
_truly_ solicitous to obtain all the previous information, which the
circumstances will afford, and to determine (when the determination can
with propriety be no longer postponed) according to the principles of
right reason and the dictates of a clear conscience, without too great
a reference to the unforeseen consequences which may affect my person
or reputation. Until that period, I may fairly hold myself open to
conviction, though I allow your sentiments to have weight in them; and
I shall not pass by your arguments without giving them as dispassionate
a consideration as I can possibly bestow on them.

In taking a survey of the subject in whatever point of light I have
been able to place it, I will not suppress the acknowledgment, my dear
sir, that I have always felt a kind of gloom upon my mind as often as
I have been taught to expect I might, and perhaps must, ere long be
called to make a decision. You will, I am well assured, believe the
assertion (though I have little expectation it would gain credit from
those who are less acquainted with me), that if I should receive and
act under the appointment, the acceptance would be attended with more
diffidence and reluctance than ever I experienced before in my life.
It would be, however, with a fixed and sole determination of lending
whatever assistance might be in my power to promote the public weal, in
hopes that, at a convenient and an early period, my services might be
dispensed with, and that I might be permitted once more to retire, to
pass an unclouded evening after the stormy day of life, in the bosom
of domestic tranquillity. But why these anticipations? If the friends
of the Constitution conceive that my administering the Government will
be the means of its acceleration and strength, is it not probable
that the adversaries thereof may entertain the same ideas, and of
course make it an object of opposition? That many of this description
will be amongst the Electors, I have no more doubt than I have of
the part they will act at the election, which will be adverse to the
choice of any character who, from whatever cause, would be likely to
thwart their views. It might be impolitic perhaps in them to make
this declaration _previous_ to the election, but I shall be out in my
conjectures if they do not act conformably thereto at it, and prove
that all the _seeming_ moderation by which their present conduct is
marked, is calculated to lull and deceive. Their plan of opposition is
systematized, and a regular intercourse between the leaders of it in
the several States (I have much reason to believe) is formed to render
it more effectual.

                           With sentiments of sincere regard and esteem,
                           I am, dear Sir,
                           Your most obedient humble servant,
                           George Washington.

The Hon. Alexander Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO THEODORE SEDGEWICK.


                                     New-York, October 9, 1788.

I thank you, my dear sir, for your obliging congratulations on the
event towards effecting which your aid as a joint laborer was so
essential. I hope experience may show that, while it promotes the
interest of this place, it will not be incompatible with public good.
We are making efforts to prepare handsome accommodations for the
session of the new Congress.

On the subject of Vice-President, my ideas have concurred with
yours, and I believe Mr. Adams will have the votes of this State.
He will certainly, I think, be preferred to the other gentleman.
Yet _certainly_ is perhaps too strong a word. I can conceive that
the other, who is supposed to be a more pliable man, may command
anti-federal influence.

The only hesitation in my mind with regard to Mr. Adams has arisen
within a day or two, from a suggestion by a particular gentleman that
he is unfriendly in his sentiments to General Washington. Richard H.
Lee, who will probably, as rumor now runs, come from Virginia, is also
in this style. The Lees and Adams’s have been in the habit of uniting,
and hence may spring up a cabal very embarrassing to the Executive,
and of course to the administration of the government. Consider
this,--sound the reality of it, and let me hear from you.

What think you of Lincoln or Knox? This is a flying thought.

                                             Yours, with sincere regard,
                                             A. Hamilton.

Mr. Sedgewick.




SEDGEWICK TO HAMILTON.


                                    Stockbridge, Oct. 16, 1788.

My Dear Sir:

Your favor of the 9th I have this moment received, and detain the post
a while that I may make a very few observations on a subject I conceive
highly interesting to the efficient operations of the future Government.

Mr. Adams was formerly infinitely more democratical than at present,
and possessing that jealousy which always accompanied such a
character, he was averse to repose such unlimited confidence in the
Commander-in-chief as then was the disposition of Congress.

Mr. Adams is not among the number of my particular friends, but, as a
man of unconquerable intrepidity, and of incorruptible integrity, as
greatly experienced in the interests and character of this country, he
possesses my highest esteem.

His writings show that he deserves the confidence of those who wish
energy in government, for although those writings are too tedious
and unpleasant in perusal, yet they are evidently the result of deep
reflection, and as they encounter popular prejudices are an evidence of
an erect and independent spirit.

Lincoln and Knox I love, their characters, too, I respect, but it is
now too late to push in this State the interests of either. The minds
of all men here seem to be fixed either on Adams or Hancock.

Our Legislature meet on the 29th. From Boston I will early write you on
the subject, and am with sincere respect,

                                            Yours, affectionately,
                                            Theodore Sedgewick.

Hon. Mr. Hamilton.




SEDGEWICK TO HAMILTON.


                                          Boston, Nov. 2, 1788.

My Dear Sir:

In my last hasty letter I engaged to write to you soon after my arrival
in this town. Various questions will be agitated in the Legislature
(of considerable magnitude) which respect the organization of the
government.

There is a party of Federalists who are of opinion, that the Electors
should be chosen by the people, and the Representatives not in
districts, but at large. These will be joined by all the antis
probably. I yet hope they will not succeed. We yesterday committed to a
committee of both Houses the circular letter from your Convention. The
event is uncertain, but a considerable number of Federalists have been
brought over to the amendment system. The prospect is, notwithstanding,
that the real friends of the Constitution will prevail. Every thing
depends upon it, and the exertion will be proportionate to the
magnitude of the object.

Should the Electors be chosen by the Legislature, Mr. Adams will
probably combine all the votes of Massachusetts. I am very certain,
that the suggestion that he is unfriendly to General Washington, is
entirely unfounded. Mr. Hancock has been very explicit in patronizing
the doctrine of Amendment. The other gentleman is for postponing the
conduct of that business until it shall be understood from experience.
* * * *

                                            I am, dear Sir,
                                            Your most obedient servant,
                                            Theodore Sedgewick.

The Hon. Mr. Hamilton.




COL. OLNEY TO HAMILTON.


                                     Providence, 3d Nov., 1788.

Dear Sir:

Your favor of 6th ulto., was duly received. I thought proper to
postpone replying to it till after the session of the General Assembly
should be over, which terminated on Saturday night last, in order that
I might have it in my power to give you, with more certainty, the
proceedings of the Legislature, on the subject of the New Constitution.
The minority, both in     of the House, took unwearied pains during the
session, to procure a Convention in the legal mode pointed out for
considering the New Constitution; but, sir, it proved, as heretofore,
an unsuccessful attempt; for Mr. Hazard, who is an implacable and
powerful enemy to the new system, and the leading character in all
the vile politics carrying on in this _devoted_ State, had so well
prepared the majority, that when the question was put, whether this
State should appoint a Convention or not, the question was lost nearly
three to one; fifteen in favor of the motion and forty-four against it.
After which (late on Saturday night) Mr. Hazard moved that a vote be
passed, for printing copies of the circular letter from the Convention
of New-York, to be distributed throughout this State, and submitting
to the people at large, the propriety of appointing delegates to
meet a _proposed_ Convention, for considering amendments, agreeably
to the recommendations of said circular letter. The vote being put,
after much debate, it was carried in favor of the measure by three to
one, notwithstanding every exertion of the minority, to prevent the
adoption of so novel and unprecedented a proceeding. It was urged,
and with truth, that should a Convention finally meet for the purpose
of amending the Constitution, that it would be composed entirely of
the adopting States; and, as such, this State could not, upon any
principles of right, expect to be admitted to a seat in that Honorable
Body, as we so obstinately (and with our eyes open) have refused,
and still neglect to accede to the new system. But, sir, reason and
argument will avail nothing with those wicked and designing opposers
to a just and honorable Federal Government. The Assembly have made an
adjournment to the last Monday in December next, in an expectation
to hear the report from the respective towns. Mr. Hazard, and a Col.
John Gardener (who is entirely under the influence of Mr. Hazard’s
politics), are ordered by the Assembly to go on from this State, and
take their seats in Congress, as soon as they can leave home; so that
in a short time you will have those two antis to deal with.

                                            I am, with sincere esteem,
                                            Sir,
                                            Your obedient humble serv’t,
                                            Jeremiah Olney.

Col. Alexander Hamilton.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                    Mount Vernon, Nov. 6, 1788.

Dear Sir:

The Count de Moustier affording a very favorable conveyance for Capt.
Cochran’s watch, I have requested the favor of him to take charge of
it; and he will deliver it to you, accordingly, with Mrs. Washington’s
and my best wishes for you and Mrs. Hamilton.

                                  I am, dear Sir,
                                  Your obedient and affectionate serv’t,
                                  G. Washington.

The Hon. Alexander Hamilton.




HAMILTON TO SEDGEWICK.


                                        New-York, Nov. 9, 1788.

Your last letter but one met me at Albany, attending court, from whence
I am but just returned. Yours of the 2d instant is this moment handed
me.

I am very sorry for the schism you hint at among the Federalists, but
I have so much confidence in the good management of the fast friends
of the Constitution, that I hope no ill consequences will ensue from
that disagreement. It will, however, be worthy of great care to avoid
suffering a difference of opinion on collateral points, to produce any
serious division between those who have hitherto drawn together on the
great national question.

Permit me to add, that I do not think you should allow any line to be
run between those who wish to trust alterations to future experience,
and those who are desirous of them at the present juncture. The rage
for amendments is, in my _opinion_, rather to be parried by address
than encountered with open force. And I shall, therefore, be loth
to learn that your parties have been arranged professedly upon the
distinction I have mentioned. The _mode_ in which amendments may best
be made, and twenty other matters, may serve as pretexts for avoiding
the evil and securing the good.

On the question between Mr. H. and Mr. A., Mr. King will probably have
informed you that I have, upon the whole, concluded that the latter
ought to be supported. My measures will be taken accordingly. I had but
one scruple, but after mature consideration I have relinquished it. Mr.
Adams, to a sound understanding, has always appeared to me to add an
ardent love for the public good; and as his further knowledge of the
world seems to have corrected those jealousies which he is represented
to have been once influenced by, I trust nothing of the kind suggested
in my former letter will disturb the harmony of administration. Let me
continue to hear from you, and believe me to be, with very great esteem
and regard,

                                                Your friend and servant,
                                                A. Hamilton.

T. Sedgewick, Esq.




HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.


                                                      November 18, 1788.

Dear Sir:

Your last two letters have duly come to hand, and the Count de Moustier
has delivered me the watch you committed to his charge. Your obliging
attention to this matter claims my particular acknowledgments. I will
make no apology for asking you to take the additional trouble of
forwarding the inclosed to the General. I take the liberty of passing
it through you, that you may, by perusing the contents, know the
situation of the business.

The demand of fifty guineas is to me quite unexpected. I am sorry to
add, that there is too good evidence that it cost a mere trifle to the
General. This, however, I mention in confidence. Nor shall I give you
any further trouble on the subject. Whatever may be proper will be done.

Mrs. Hamilton requests her affectionate remembrances to Mrs.
Washington, and joins me in the best wishes for you both.

                                        I remain, dear Sir,
                                        Your affectionate humble serv’t,
                                        A. Hamilton.

P. S. Your last letter, on a certain subject, I have received. I
feel a conviction that you will finally see your acceptance to be
indispensable. It is no compliment to say, that no other man can
sufficiently unite the public opinion, or can give the requisite
weight to the office, in the commencement of the Government. These
considerations appear to me of themselves decisive. I am not sure that
your refusal would not throw every thing into confusion. I am sure that
it would have the worst effect imaginable. Indeed, as I hinted in a
former letter, I think circumstances leave no option.




HAMILTON TO MADISON.


                                       New-York, Nov. 23, 1788.

I thank you, my dear sir, for yours of the 20th. The only part of it
which surprises me, is what you mention respecting Clinton. I cannot,
however, believe that the plan will succeed. Nor, indeed, do I think,
that Clinton would be disposed to exchange his present appointment
for that office, or risk his popularity by holding both. At the same
time, the attempt merits attention, and ought not to be neglected as
chimerical or impracticable.

In Massachusetts the Electors will, I understand, be appointed by the
Legislature, and will be all Federal, and ’tis probable will be, for
the most part, in favor of Adams. It is said, the same thing will
happen in New Hampshire, and I have reason to believe, will be the
case in Connecticut. In this State it is difficult to form any certain
calculation. A large majority of the _Assembly_ was doubtless of an
Anti-federal complexion, but the schism in the party which has been
occasioned by the falling off of some of its leaders in the Convention,
leaves me not without hope, that if matters are well managed, we may
procure a majority for some pretty equal compromise. In the Senate
we have the superiority by one. In New Jersey there seems to be no
question, but that the complexion of the electors will be Federal;
and I suppose, if thought expedient, they may be united in favor of
Adams. Pennsylvania you can best judge of. From Delaware, Maryland, and
South Carolina, I presume, we may count with tolerable assurance on
Federal men; and I should imagine, if pains are taken, the danger of an
Anti-federal Vice-President might itself be rendered the instrument of
Union. At any rate, their weight will not be thrown into the scale of
Clinton, and I do not see from what quarter numbers can be marshalled
in his favor, equal to those who will advocate Adams, supposing even a
division in the Federal votes.

On the whole, I have concluded to support Adams, though I am not
without apprehensions on the score we have conversed about. My
principal reasons are these: First--He is a declared partisan of
deferring to future experience the expediency of amendments in the
system, and (although I do not altogether _adopt_ this sentiment) it
is much nearer my own than certain other doctrines. Secondly--He is
certainly a character of importance in the Eastern States; if he is
not Vice-President, one of two worse things will be likely to happen.
Either he must be nominated to some important office, for which he is
less proper, or will become a malcontent, and give additional weight to
the opposition to the Government. As to Knox, I cannot persuade myself
that he will incline to the appointment. He must _sacrifice_ emolument
by it, which must be of _necessity_ a primary object with him.

If it should be thought expedient to endeavor to unite in a particular
character, there is a danger of a different kind to which we must
not be inattentive--the possibility of rendering it doubtful who is
appointed President. You know the Constitution has not provided the
means of distinguishing in certain cases, and it would be disagreeable
even to have a man treading close upon the heels of the person we
wish as President. May not the malignity of the opposition be, in
some instances, exhibited even against him? Of all this we shall best
judge, when we know who are our Electors; and we must, in our different
circles, take our measures accordingly.

I could console myself for what you mention respecting yourself,
from a desire to see you in one of the executive departments, did I
not perceive the representation will be defective in characters of a
certain description. Wilson is evidently out of the question. King
tells me he does not believe he will be elected into either House. Mr.
Gouverneur Morris set out to-day for France, by way of Philadelphia. If
you are not in one of the branches, the Government may sincerely feel
the want of men who unite to zeal all the requisite qualifications for
parrying the machinations of its enemies. Might I advise, it would be,
that you bent your course to Virginia.

                                                   Affectionately yours,
                                                   A. Hamilton.

Mr. J. Madison.




WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.


                                        Monday morning, January 4, 1789.

Dear Sir:

I feel myself very much obliged by what you sent me yesterday.
The letter from Governor Johnston I return, much pleased to find
so authentic an account of the adoption by North Carolina of the
Constitution.

                                    Yours, sincerely and affectionately,
                                    G. Washington.




HAMILTON TO SEDGEWICK.


                                       New-York, Jan. 29, 1789.

My Dear Sir:

I thank you for your two letters of the 4th and 7th instant, which
arrived here during my absence at Albany, from which place I have but
recently returned. I believe you may be perfectly tranquil on the
subject of Mr. Adams’s election. It seems to be certain that all the
Middle States will vote for him to Delaware inclusively, and probably
Maryland. In the South, there are no candidates thought of but Rutledge
and Clinton. The latter will have the votes of Virginia, and it is
_possible_ some in South Carolina. Maryland will certainly not vote for
Clinton, and New-York, from our Legislature having by their contentions
let slip the day, will not vote at all. For the last circumstance, I
am not sorry, as the most we could hope would be to balance accounts
and do no harm. The Anti-federalists incline to an appointment
notwithstanding, but I discourage it with the Federalists. Under these
circumstances, I see not how any person can come near Mr. Adams; that
is, taking it for granted that he will unite the votes in New Hampshire
and Massachusetts. I expect that the Federal votes in Virginia, if any,
will be in favor of Adams.

You will probably have heard that our Legislature has passed a bill
for electing Representatives. The houses continue to disagree about
Senators, and I fear a compromise will be impracticable. I do not,
however, entirely lose hope. In this situation, you will perceive
that we have much to apprehend respecting the seat of Government.
The Pennsylvanians are endeavoring to bring their forces early in
the field. I hope our friends in the North will not be behindhand.
On many accounts, indeed, it appears to be important that there be
an appearance of zeal and punctuality in coming forward to set the
Government in motion.

I shall learn with infinite pleasure that you are a Representative. As
to me, this will not be the case--I believe, from my own disinclination
to the thing. We shall, however, I flatter myself, have a couple of
Federalists.

                                I remain your affectionate and obedient,
                                A. Hamilton.




WADSWORTH TO HAMILTON.


                                      Hartford, February, 1789.

My Dear Sir:

Your favor of the 25th January came in good time. Our votes were given
agreeably to your wishes--Washington, 7; Adams, 5; Governor Huntington,
2. By letters from Carrington, I learn that Clinton is the Anti-federal
Vice-president; but I think we have nothing to fear. I believe New
Hampshire will give Adams 4; Massachusetts, 6; Georgia, 6--as letters
from Georgia say he will have at least so many--which, with ours,
makes 21, which is more than Clinton can get, and we may certainly
reckon on three more for Adams in South Carolina, Maryland, Delaware,
Pennsylvania, and New Jersey. We waived an answer to your State, and to
Virginia. As you did not get my letter in season to answer me on that
subject, I feared we should not do any good by an answer; and as the
Anti-federalists did not move it, I thought we had best let it sleep.
* * *

                                            I am, dear sir,
                                            Your affectionate friend,
                                            Jeremiah Wadsworth.




END OF VOL. I.




Transcriber’s Notes

A number of typographical errors were corrected silently. The French
needed particular attention.

New original cover art included with this eBook is granted to the
public domain.

The impossible dates of April 31, 1777 and June 31, 1788 are in the
original.

Three consecutive blank lines were replaced by three ellipses.




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WORKS OF ALEXANDER HAMILTON (VOL. 1 OF 7) ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG™ LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg™ License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg

Project Gutenberg is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 41 Watchung Plaza #516,
Montclair NJ 07042, USA, +1 (862) 621-9288. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

 
                              


